Text extracted from the archived Home Affairs page (Wayback capture 20190122061857) https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-188/premium-investor . The page stores its content as JSON in a hidden field; this file lists the text strings of that JSON in order, tags removed.

Business Innovation and Investment (provisional) visa (subclass 188)
Premium Investor stream
This visa is for people who are nominated by Austrade and who invest AUD15 million in Australia.
Warning text and link
Overview
About this visa
Eligibility
Step by step
When you have this visa
Process
You must
receive an invitation from Austrade to apply make investments of AUD15 million in Australia and hold them for at least 12 months genuinely commit to continuing your business and investment activity in Australia after the conclusion of your provisional visa
With this visa, you can
carry out business and investment activity in Australia stay in Australia for up to 4 years and 3 months apply for a permanent Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Premium Investor stream
Up to 4 years and 3 months
From AUD8,770
75% of applications: 90% of applications:
See all conditions
With this visa, you can
carry out business and investment activity in Australia stay in Australia for up to 4 years and 3 months bring members of your family with you apply for a permanent Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Premium Investor stream
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa. You can stay in Australia for up to 4 years and 3 months. If you applied before 1 July 2015, you can stay up to 4 years. The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid. The visa starts on the date we grant it.
Stay longer
You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. Once you have this visa, you can apply for permanent residence through the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Premium Investor stream .
Include family
You can include members of the family unit in your application when you apply. You can also add children to your application at any time before we decide on your application. Family who apply for the visa must meet our health and character requirements. Family who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health and character requirements.
Cost
This visa costs AUD8,770. There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you: additional applicant over 18 years old: AUD4,385 additional applicant under 18 years old: AUD2,195 You might have to pay an extra charge for any applicant 18 years old or older who has less than functional English .This charge is the second instalment. Pay it only when we ask you to. We will refund the charge if we do not grant you the visa. The second instalment charges are: main applicant: AUD9,795 family members: AUD4,890 You might also have to pay other costs for health checks, police certificates and biometrics . To work out what your visa will cost use the Visa Pricing Estimator . The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs.
Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application.
Processing times
75% of applications: 90% of applications: There are no standard processing times available for this stream. Your application can take longer to process if: you do not fill it in correctly you do not include all the documents we need or we need more information from you it takes us time to verify your information We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.
Your obligations
You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws. If you apply for a Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent visa (subclass 888) Premisum Investor stream, you must have a genuine and realistic commitment to continue your business and investment activity in Australia after the conclusion of your provisional visa. You must also hold your investment of AUD15 million for a minimum of 12 months and follow Australian workplace laws. Learn more about conditions for this visa . Follow Australian workplace laws All workers in Australia (including visa holders) have rights and protections at work. Pay rates and workplace conditions are set by Australian law.
Adequate health insurance
We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability. See what we consider adequate health insurance . Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors . Reciprocal healthcare agreements Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from the Department of Human Services about reciprocal healthcare agreements .
Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid. The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.
Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.
Have an invitation from Austrade
The Premium Investor stream of this visa is for talented entrepreneurs and innovators with a minimum AUD15 million to invest. Nominations for this visa stream are by Austrade invitation only. Austrade will not accept unsolicited expressions of interest. Learn more about the Premium Investor program from Austrade .
Make a complying investment of at least AUD15 million
After you lodge your application, you must make a complying investment of at least AUD15 million in any of the following options Australian securities exchange listed assets Australian government or semi-government bonds or notes corporate bonds or notes issued by an Australian exchange listed entity (or wholly owned subsidiary of the Australian listed entity), investment grade rated Australian corporate bonds or notes rated by an AFS licenced debt rating agency Australian proprietary limited companies that operate qualifying businesses (providing goods or services to the public with a profit-making intention, and not passive or speculative in nature) real property in Australia excluding residential property deferred annuities issued by Australian registered life companies state or territory government approved philanthropic contribution Income that you earn from your complying investment in Australia is subject to tax under Australian taxation law. You must also have a genuine and realistic commitment to continue your business and investment activity in Australia after your visa ends.
Have net assets of at least AUD15 million
You must have net assets of at least AUD15 million. These assets could belong to you, your partner , or you and your partner combined. They must be legally acquired, unencumbered, and available to make the complying investment in Australia.
Have had no involvement in unacceptable activities
You must not have been involved in business or investment activities that are unacceptable in Australia. This also applies to your partner.
Agree not to bring action against the Commonwealth
You must agree not to bring any action against the Commonwealth for any loss relating to your complying investment. This also applies to your partner and any family member 18 years of age or older.
Meet our health requirement
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement . If you apply for this visa from outside Australia, family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.
Meet our character requirement
You and family members aged 16 years or over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement . We might also ask that other family members meet the requirement.
Sign the Australian values statement
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must: have read, or had explained to you, the Life in Australia and sign an Australian Values Statement that confirms you will respect the Australian way of life obey Australian laws
Have functional English
Applicants aged 18 or over at time of application must have at least functional English . If you are unable to prove they have functional English they will have to pay the second instalment.
Have no debt to the Australian Government
If you or any family members owe the Australian Government money, you or they must have paid it back or have an approved arrangement in place to pay it back
Not have had a visa cancelled or a previous application refused
You might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused while you were in Australia. Check if visa cancellation affects your eligibility .
Before you apply
You must be nominated and invited to apply by Austrade. Unsolicited expressions of interest are not accepted.
New step description
Get an invitation from Austrade
Nominations for this visa are by Austrade invitation only. Austrade will not accept unsolicited expressions of interest. Learn more about the Premium Investor visa program from Austrade .
Get help with your application
You don’t have to use a migration agent to apply for any visa. But if you want to use a migration agent in Australia, see registered migration agent . Anyone can help you fill out forms or give you general help with your application. But you must let us know if you want someone to: receive your correspondence provide immigration assistance and act for you
Gather your documents
You will need to prove your identity, and provide documents about your business and assets. You also need to provide documents about family members applying with you.
New step description
Provide accurate information
Provide accurate information. See what happens you can't prove your identity or do not provide true information .
Identity documents
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you, provide: Colour copies of the pages of your current passport showing your photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates. Also provide: a national identity card, if you have one proof of change of name, if applicable Documents that prove a change of name include: a marriage or divorce certificate change of name documents from an Australian Registry of Births, Deaths and Marriages, or the relevant overseas authority documents that show other names you have been known by
English language documents
Prove that you have at least functional English . Applicants and dependants 18 years and older (at the time of applying for this visa) who can't provide evidence of having at least functional English must pay a second instalment of the visa application charge. If you or your dependents have less than functional English, provide a statement indicating your intention to pay the second visa application charge for each person with less than functional English.
Premium Investor documents
A statement of Assets and Liabilities Position
Provide a Statement of Assets and Liabilities Position (SALP) by filling out Form 1139A Statement of Assets and Liabilities Position . Complete the form for a date less than 3 months before the date you were invited to apply for this visa
Evidence of ownership and value of assets
Give us evidence that you own the assets you propose to use to make the complying investments. Also give us evidence of their value (minimum AUD15 million). You must include evidence of liabilities (if any) against each asset. For example, mortgages, loans including unsecured and third party loans, and credit cards. Provide evidence for each asset and liability recorded in the SALP. Label each document, identify the asset or liability and cross-reference it to the SALP. For cash assets, give us bank statements or certificates of deposit for the date nominated on your SALP. For real estate assets, give us the following for the dates nominated on your SALP: evidence of ownership (title deeds) evidence of value (valuation certificate by an accredited property valuer) evidence of relevant mortgage For business loans, give us the following for the date nominated on your SALP: loan agreements loan ledger listing all loan transactions bank statements for you/your spouse and the business, showing all loan transactions For business ownership, give us evidence of ownership for the date nominated on your SALP. This may include one or more of the following: evidence of purchase share registers company registers share transfer documents historical company extracts annual returns of directors and shareholders partnership, trust or franchise agreements For listed companies, provide the published annual report. For unlisted companies, provide financial statements. An independent accountant must prepare these financial statements to international accounting standards. Or provide a review report prepared by qualified auditors in accordance with ISRE2400. For stocks and bonds, provide stocks trading account statements; stocks or bonds registers; stocks, fixed interest securities or debentures certificates, or transfer certificates. Provide these for the date nominated on your SALP. For assets held via a trust, provide a complete copy of the trust deeds, including all schedules.
How you will make your investment
Give us a signed declaration on your proposed method of fund transfer to make the complying significant investments.
Your investment intentions
Give us an overview of your complying investment intentions. This must include an outline of your intended investments or business activities in Australia.
Source of funds
You need to provide your asset portfolio's source of funds You need to provide a signed declaration listing the sources of funds for your asset portfolio, and that these funds were lawfully acquired. Also give us evidence to support your source of funds declaration: for business income , give us evidence of business ownership, performance and profit distribution. For example, company registration and shareholder records, financial statements or taxation records for investment income , give us evidence of investment activities and performance. For example, statements issued by stocks trading company, property purchase and sale contracts, leases or investment product contracts. for gifted or inherited assets , give us duly witnessed gift deeds or wills. Also give us other evidence demonstrating how the original owner accumulated the assets for historical accumulation of wealth where official verifiable evidence is no longer available, , give us bank records demonstrating continuous ownership of funds over a substantial period. for assets held in Australia , give us evidence which links the assets to the declared sources We will tell you when you need to make the complying investments and when we need this evidence. You must make the complying investment after you have applied for the visa. You will need to show that the funds used to make the complying investments originate from the assets nominated to make the complying investments. The trail of funds must also be reasonably established with supporting evidence
Character documents
You and any family members who apply for the visa with you, provide: Form 80 Personal particulars for assessment including character assessment police certificates from every country, including your home country, where you spent a total of 12 months or more in the last 10 years since you turned 16 military service records or discharge papers if you served in the armed forces of any country
Tell us you are getting help
To nominate someone to: receive your correspondence, use Form 956a Appointment or withdrawal of an authorised recipient provide immigration advice, use Form 956 Advice by a migration agent/exempt person of providing immigration assistance act for you but not provide immigration assistance, let us know in writing what they can do on your behalf (such as submit or withdraw an application for you). Upload your written notification in ImmiAccount See more about getting help with your application .
Partner documents
Provide: identity documents character documents documents about other relationships, if applicable Provide either: your current marriage certificate or enough documents to prove you have been in a de facto relationship with you for at least 12 months before you apply Only a few documents will be needed If you and your partner have a child or children included in this application whose birth certificate shows you both as parents. Documents that prove your de facto relationship include: joint bank account statements billing accounts in joint names joint leases or mortgages documents that show you have lived at the same address as you
Dependants under 18 documents
For every dependent under 18 years old who is applying with you, provide: identity documents proof of your relationship with them, like a birth or marriage certificate character documents, if applicable
Parental responsibility documents
You must get consent for a dependent child to migrate to Australia from anyone who: has a legal right to decide where the dependant lives and is not coming to Australia with the dependant They must complete either: Form 1229 Consent form to grant an Australian visa to a child under the age of 18 years statutory declaration giving their consent for the child to migrate to Australia on this visa Include a document with the contact details, signature and photo of the people who complete the form or declaration, such as a: passport driver’s licence an Australian court order that allows your child to migrate to Australia, or that the laws of the child's home country allow them to leave their home country
Dependants over 18 documents
To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must be: over 18 years of age but not yet turned 23, and dependent on you or your partner, or over 23 years of age and unable to earn a living to support themselves due to physical or cognitive limitations and dependent on you or your partner If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability. Provide: identity documents documents about their other relationships, if applicable character documents You must also provide proof the child is dependent on you. proof of your relationship with the dependant such as a birth certificate or adoption papers a completed Form 47a Details of a child or other dependent family member aged 18 years or over proof of financial dependency such as bank statements, money transfers and rent receipts if the child is aged 23 or is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you must also provide a report from a qualified medical practitioner that states they are dependent on you or your partner due to the total or partial loss of their bodily or mental functions
Prepare your documents
Translate
Have all non-English documents translated into English. Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters . Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their: full name address and telephone number qualifications and experience in the language they are translating These details must be in English. Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.
Scan or photograph
Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour. The scans and photos must be clear. If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.
Applying from China, Macau, Hong Kong or Taiwan
If you are applying from China, Macau, Hong Kong or Taiwan, please use the document checklist from the Australian Consulate General Hong Kong .
Apply for the visa
Apply for this visa online. You must be invited to apply. Your invitation letter will tell you how to submit your application.
New step description
About applying
If Austrade invites you to apply for the Premium Investor visa, your invitation will tell you how to apply online. There will be an online form to complete.
Provide accurate information
Provide accurate information. See what happens you can't prove your identity or do not provide true information .
Apply for the visa online in ImmiAccount
Log in or create an ImmiAccount Pay the application charge . ImmiAccount will tell you the charge. We will not process your application until you pay the correct charge. We will let you know if this is the case. Sending us your documents and forms After you submit your application online, send us your documents and other forms. If you live in the People's Republic of China (PRC), Hong Kong (SAR), Macau (SAR) or Taiwan, send the documents to the Australian Consulate General Hong Kong . If you live elsewhere, send your documents by registered post to Adelaide Visa and Citizenship Office Attention: Adelaide Business Skills Processing Centre
After you apply
We will let you know when we have received your application and documents. See what you can and must do after you apply.
New step description
Status updates
We can’t give updates on applications. You can check if we need more information from you in ImmiAccount .
Travel after you apply
You do not have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision. But if you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa to return. Learn about visa expiry .
Health exams
If you did not have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them.
Biometrics
We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.
Attach more information
If you didn't attach all documents when you applied, attach them as soon as possible. After you submit your application online, send us your documents and other forms. If you live in the People's Republic of China (PRC), Hong Kong (SAR), Macau (SAR) or Taiwan, send the documents to the Australian Consulate General Hong Kong . If you live elsewhere, send your documents by registered post to Adelaide Visa and Citizenship Office Attention: Adelaide Business Skills Processing Centre
Pay the second instalment
If you need to pay a second instalment, we will send you an invoice after you have met all other requirements for the visa. Pay the invoice after you get it. Do not ask for the invoice. You must pay the instalment before we will grant the visa.
Add family
You can add your dependent child or children o your application after you apply but before we decide on your visa To add a dependent child please complete Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement and send it to the email address we gave you when you sent your application include evidence of the child's relationship to you include other supporting documents for your child, such as identity documents pay the additional application charge
Newborn children
Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply .
Mistakes on your application
Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application. Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers .
Make your investment
When we are satisfied that you meet all other criteria for this visa, we will invite you in writing to make a complying premium investment. Do not make your complying premium investment until we invite you to do so, as your visa will not be granted if you cannot satisfy all other criteria for this visa. Further, any investment made before lodging the application will not meet the requirements of this visa. If we invite you to make a complying premium investment, your invitation letter will state the sources of funds that we have accepted for you to use for the investment. You must make the investment within the timeframe stated in the letter (usually 70 days). When you have made the investment, you must provide our office with: Evidence of each transaction that occurred in the movement of funds from the approved sources to each component of the complying premium investment Form 1413D Declaration for each investment component . The form must be signed by the responsible fund manager for each component of the investment after the relevant investment component has been made.
Documents showing liquidation of assets
Give us documents showing that you have liquified the assets detailed in Evidence of ownership and value of assets. Also give us documents showing that minimum AUD5 million has been transferred to make the complying investments.
New step description
Evidence you have made the complying investments
Obtain a Form 1413D Declaration for each investment component. The responsible fund manager must sign it. The form should be dated after the relevant investment has been made. In some cases the declaring fund manager does not hold an official position with the fund's responsible entity. If this is the case, give us a letter issued by the responsible entity authorising that the declaring fund manager can sign the form on its behalf. When filling out Part B of the form (Venture Capital and Growth Private Equity (VCPE) Funds), you may not have committed to a particular VCPE fund at the time of submitting this form. If this is the case and you have funds held in a cash management trust, have the manager of the trust sign Part B. If this is the case and your funds are in an Australian Authorised Deposit Taking Institution (ADI), give us the following: an account statement confirming that you have deposited the funds a signed declaration confirming that you will use the funds for investing in VCPE funds
Stay lawful
If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application. When you applied for this visa, you were granted a Bridging visa A (BVA) . If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the BVA will start. You can stay in Australia on the BVA while we process your new visa application. However, if you intend to leave Australia and return while holding a BVA, you will need to apply to our office for a Bridging Visa B (BVB) or make alternative visa arrangements to return, as your BVA expires when you leave Australia.” Do not cancel your current visa. If you do, you will: be staying in Australia unlawfully not be eligible for a Bridging visa A Learn more about visa expiry .
Tell us if things change
Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include: changes to your phone number, email, address or passport significant changes to your investments changes to your marital or de facto status the birth of a child you want to withdraw your application See how to tell us if your situation changes .
Help with your application
Let us know if you no longer want someone to: receive your correspondence - complete Form 956a Appointment or withdrawal of an authorised recipient provide immigration advice - complete Form 956 Advice by a migration agent/exempt person of providing immigration assistance act for you - let us know in writing by uploading your advice in ImmiAccount See more about withdrawing your nomination .
Visa outcome
We will let you know by email our decision about your visa application. If your visa is granted, the email will tell you: your visa grant number the date your visa starts your visa conditions Keep a copy of the email with you when in Australia. If we refuse your visa we will let you know by email. We will tell you why we refused and whether you have a right to a review of the decision. We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.
New step description
Coming to Australia
Before you leave Check your travel documents You must have: a valid visa to enter Australia a valid passport or other travel document At the border Completing an Incoming Passenger Card All people arriving Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card . You will be given this card onboard. Leaving the airport faster We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate .
In Australia
What you can do when you have this visa This is not a permanent visa. With this visa you can: carry out business and investment activity in Australia stay in Australia for up to 4 years and 3 months bring members of your family with you apply for a permanent Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Premium Investor stream To see your specific conditions, work and study entitlements use VEVO . What you must do on this visa You and your family members must meet all visa conditions and obey Australian laws. See your conditions in VEVO or your visa grant letter. Tell us if things change Things you need to let us know about include: changes to your phone number, email, address or passport significant changes to your investments changes to your relationship status the birth of a child See how to let us know if your situation changes . See how long you can stay This is a provisional visa. You can stay in Australia for up to 4 years and 3 months. The visa is granted with multiple entry. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid. The visa starts on the date we grant it. To see when you must leave, use VEVO . Staying longer You can't stay in Australia longer by extending this visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer. Once you have this visa, you can apply for permanent residence through the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Premium Investor stream . Travelling on your visa This is a multiple entry visa. You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid. The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa. Proving you have a visa To prove you have a visa and show your conditions to someone, use VEVO . You can request your international movement records by completing Form 1359 Request for international movement records . Bringing family After you are granted this visa, if members of your family want to apply for the same visa, they must submit a separate online application. Any additional family members are called 'subsequent entrants'. Complete the 'Application for a Business Innovation and Investment (Subsequent Entrant) Visa' application form in ImmiAccount.
Leaving Australia
Before you leave Check your travel documents You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia. At the Border Leaving the airport faster We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You could leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate . After you leave Proving you have been to Australia To prove you have been to Australia, request your international movement records by completing Form 1359 Request for international movement records .
Overview
About this visa
Eligibility
How to Apply
When you are a sponsor
Process
Notes heading
Notes section
With this visa heading
With this visa section
Stay section
Cost section
Processing time section
See all conditions
Anchor Content 1
Block 1
Anchor Content 2
Block 2
New Criteria Title
New criteria summary
New criteria description
New Criteria Title
New criteria summary
New criteria description
New Criteria Title
New criteria summary
New criteria description
New Criteria Title
New criteria summary
New criteria description
New Criteria Title
New criteria summary
New criteria description
New Step Title
New step summary
New step description
Question block with hyperlink
Anchor Content 1
Block 1
Anchor Content 2
Block 2
For Applicants
For Sponsors