Captured 2026-10-02 from https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-188/significant-investor-stream
Text decoded from the JSON embedded in the HTML (the page renders it by script).
Meta description: Significant Investor stream (subclass 188): for people investing AUD5 million in approved Australian investments.

https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/Visa-subsite

{71ce5f79-e12f-40ea-842c-5421766d598a}

https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au

{c7275082-b651-4af6-9cf6-8a9ff0423df8}

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/188-significant-investor-stream.aspx

{f2d4c39f-8a8c-4fab-93ef-384c5da7c028}

_layouts/15/images/siteicon.png

2026-10-02T06:43:10.2898404Z

71d840a2-3c51-a0e1-0009-ec1b54eb35dc

00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000

/Visa-subsite/_layouts/15/Authenticate.aspx?Source=%2Fvisas%2Fgetting%2Da%2Dvisa%2Fvisa%2Dlisting%2Fbusiness%2Dinnovation%2Dand%2Dinvestment%2D188%2Fsignificant%2Dinvestor%2Dstream

0x7A52A3E0709A5F6043B9E092D72B1A7A67161EDCF98E62BFF24C1B9931E18F47AD8C896627B8DA6B2C01B057B36B84059F9F2F618170650B02125A0F2F6A4C73,02 Oct 2026 06:43:10 -0000

/_layouts/15/1033/styles/Themable/oslo.css?rev=8KkyJqIh4eZEVR53I1larQ%3D%3DTAG0

CssLink-e56749b8abec45e38cb2f2621a31def5

Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) (subclass 188) visa

Significant Investor stream

This provisional visa requires you to invest at least AUD5 million in Australian investments that meet certain requirements and maintain investment activity in Australia. This stream closed to new applications on 31 July 2024.

be invited to apply for this visa 
 be nominated by a State or Territory government agency or Austrade to invest at least AUD5 million that meets certain requirements and have a genuine intention to hold that investment for the life of your provisional visa 
 have a genuine intention to live in the State or Territory whose government agency nominates you 
 

 Help with your visa 

 If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application .

carry out investment activity in Australia 
 apply for a permanent Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Significant Investor stream if certain requirements are met.

From (concessions apply in limited circumstances) 

 Cost Concession 

 From 1 July 2026, a lower visa cost applies to eligible Pacific Island and Timor-Leste citizens who lodge a valid visa application. See About this visa . 

 To work out what your visa will cost, use the Visa Pricing Estimator . The estimator does not take into account any other costs.

For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool . This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.

stay in Australia while the visa is valid 
 undertake investment activity in Australia 
 work and study in Australia 
 attend free English language classes through the Adult Migrant English Program , if eligible 
 travel to and from Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid 
 bring eligible members of your family with you 
 apply for permanent residency, if eligible, through the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) in the Significant Investor stream .

This is a provisional visa. You can stay in Australia for up to 5 years if you were invited to apply on or after 1 July 2021. 

 If you applied after 1 July 2015, and were invited to apply for this visa before 1 July 2021, you can stay in Australia for up to 4 years and 3 months. 

 If you applied for this visa before 1 July 2015, you can stay in Australia for 4 years. 

 The visa is granted with multiple entries. You can leave and re-enter Australia as many times as you want while the visa is valid. 

 The visa starts on the date it is granted.

This is a provisional visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer. 

 Once you have this visa, you can apply for permanent residence through the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) in the Significant Investor stream, if you meet certain requirements. Explore your visa options . 

 If you need more time to apply for permanent residence, you can apply for a new Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor Extension stream. 

 If granted, you will be able to travel to, enter and remain in Australia for up to 7 years after the date of the grant of the original Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor Extension stream. 

 You can also apply for a second Significant Investor Extension stream visa. If granted, you will be able to travel to, enter and remain in Australia for up to 9 years after the date of the grant of the original Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor Extension stream.

You can add your dependent child or children to your application at any time before we decide on your application. They will need to meet our health and character (if applicable) requirements. 

 The spouse or de facto partner of the main applicant who did not make a combined application at the initial lodgement of the subclass 188 visa, can make a subsequent entrant application. A subclass 188 visa can only be granted to a subsequent entrant after the main applicant’s subclass 188 visa is granted. 

 Complete the online 'Application for a Business Innovation and Investment (Subsequent Entrant) Visa' application form in ImmiAccount . An application charge is applicable. 

 In order for the main applicant to be granted the visa, family members who are not coming to Australia must meet our character requirements, and might have to meet our health requirements.

From for the main applicant (concessions apply in limited circumstances). 

 There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa with you. 

 Any applicant who was at least 18 years old at the time of application, and is assessed as not having functional English , and has not paid a second instalment of the visa application charge in relation to their application for a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) (subclass 188) visa will have to pay this extra charge. Pay it only when we ask you to. We will refund the charge if we do not grant the visa to that applicant. 

 The second instalment charges are: 

 
 main applicant: AUD9,795 
 family members: AUD4,890 
 

 Use the Visa pricing estimator to work out what your visa will cost. The estimator does not take into account the second instalment or other costs. You might also have to pay other costs for health checks , police certificates and biometrics. 

 Cost concession for eligible Pacific Island and Timor-Leste visa applicants 

 From 1 July 2026, a lower visa cost applies to eligible Pacific Island and Timor-Leste citizens who lodge a valid visa application. 

 We will charge eligible applicants the lower visa application cost during the application process in ImmiAccount . We will recognise eligible applicants by the valid passport from the specified countries used in the application when they apply. 

 Family members are also eligible for the lower visa cost. We base this on the passport of the primary applicant (or visa holder who satisfies the primary visa criteria). 

 The primary applicant must hold a valid passport issued by one of the following countries: 

 
 Federated States of Micronesia 
 Fiji 
 Kiribati 
 Nauru 
 Palau 
 Papua New Guinea 
 Republic of the Marshall Islands 
 Samoa 
 Solomon Islands 
 Timor-Leste 
 Tonga 
 Tuvalu 
 Vanuatu

You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application, but not in immigration clearance .

For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool . This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application. 

 Your application might take longer to process if: 

 
 you do not complete the application form correctly 
 you do not include all the documents we need or we need more information from you 
 it takes us time to verify your information 
 

 We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will notify you if this is the case and if necessary return your application.

You and your family members who are part of your application must comply with all visa conditions and Australian laws. 

 Learn more about conditions for this visa 

 Meet your business obligations 

 While the holder of this visa, you must have a genuine and realistic commitment to: 

 
 you and/or your spouse or de facto partner must have a genuine intention to live in the State or Territory whose government agency nominated you 
 continue business and investment activity in Australia after your visa ends 
 

 You must also maintain your investment for the whole of the visa period and comply with Australian workplace laws. 

 To be eligible for the grant of a Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) in the Significant Investor stream, you must also live in Australia for at least 40 days per year for the duration of your provisional visa. Or your spouse or de facto partner must live in Australia for at least 180 days per year for the duration of your provisional visa. These days do not need to be consecutive. 

 Maintain your investment 

 You must make a complying significant investment of at least AUD5 million. You must hold complying significant investments continuously for the life of your provisional visa. 

 You can switch between complying significant investments if: 

 
 you reinvest the funds you withdraw from an investment into other complying significant investments within 30 days 
 the sum withdrawn is the same as, or less than, the sum reinvested irrespective of any gains and losses due to market exposures 
 

 If you reinvest funds into a complying significant investment within 30 days, we count that as holding them continuously. 

 If you withdraw funds from venture capital or emerging company investments, you must reinvest the funds into venture capital or emerging companies. 

 If you withdraw funds from the 'balancing investment' category of investments, you can reinvest them into another balancing investment, venture capital or emerging companies. 

 If you withdraw funds from venture capital because the venture capital investment has been realised, you must reinvest those funds. You can reinvest them in any eligible complying significant investment. 

 Income that you earn from your complying significant investment in Australia may be subject to tax under Australian taxation law. 

 Note that the investment rules that were in force at the time that you applied for your Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor stream will continue to apply for the duration of your visa. This includes any Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor Extension stream visas you apply for that relate to your visa. 

 You might want to seek independent legal advice to ensure that an investment is a ‘complying significant investment’. It is your responsibility to ensure your investment options comply with this visa's requirements. 

 For more information about complying significant investments, see the Complying Investment Framework information sheet , and for the 1 July 2021 changes see Business Innovation and Investment Program: Getting a better deal for Australia . 

 Follow Australian workplace laws 

 All workers in Australia (including visa holders) have rights and protections at work. Pay rates and workplace conditions are set by Australian law. 

 If you operate a business in Australia, you must comply with workplace laws. The Pay and Conditions Tool (PACT) can help you with: 

 
 pay rates 
 shift calculations 
 leave arrangements and notice 
 redundancy entitlements

We recommend you take out health insurance to cover any unforeseen medical treatment you might need in Australia. You are personally liable for all your healthcare costs while you are in Australia. Insurance can help limit your financial liability. 

 See what we consider adequate health insurance . 

 Learn more about health insurance for overseas visitors . 

 Reciprocal healthcare agreements 

 Some countries have a reciprocal healthcare agreement with Australia. Find out more from Services Australia about reciprocal healthcare agreements .

You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid. 

 The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.

Australian visas are digital. 

 We do not put a visa label in your passport. Instead, we link your digital visa record to your passport.

Receive an invitation to apply

First, you must submit an Expression of Interest (EOI) . If an Australian State or Territory government agency accepts your EOI and nominates you, we will invite you to apply for this visa.

Be nominated

You must be nominated by an Australian State or Territory government agency or Austrade before being invited to apply for this visa. 

 The State or Territory government agency or Austrade that nominates you must not withdraw their nomination after you apply, or we will be unable to grant you a visa.

Be able to invest at least AUD5 million

If you were invited to apply on or after 1 July 2021 

 If you were invited to apply on or after 1 July 2021, you must make (on or after the time of application for this visa), a complying significant investment of at least AUD5 million when we invite you to, and have a genuine intention to hold that investment for the life of your provisional visa. It must be invested in the following proportions: 

 
 at least AUD1 million in venture capital and growth private equity funds which invest in start-ups and small private companies 
 at least AUD1.5 million in approved managed funds. The managed funds must invest in emerging companies listed on the Australian Stock Exchange 
 a ‘balancing investment’ of at least AUD2.5 million in managed funds 
 

 The managed funds can invest in a range of assets, including companies listed on the Australian stock exchange, Australian corporate bonds or notes, annuities and commercial real estate. 

 Direct investment in residential real estate is prohibited. Indirect investment in residential property through managed funds is strictly limited. 

 You must not use investments as security or collateral for a loan. 

 For more information about complying significant investments, see the Complying Investment Framework information sheet , and for the 1 July 2021 changes see Business Innovation and Investment Program: Getting a better deal for Australia . 

 If you were invited to apply before 1 July 2021 

 To be granted this visa, you must make (on or after the time of application for this visa), a complying significant investment of at least AUD5 million when we invite you to, and have a genuine intention to hold that investment for at least 4 years. It must be invested in the following proportions: 

 
 at least AUD500,000 in venture capital and growth private equity funds which invest in start-ups and small private companies 
 at least AUD1.5 million in approved managed funds. The managed funds must invest in emerging companies listed on the Australian Stock Exchange 
 a ‘balancing investment’ of at least AUD3 million in managed funds 
 

 The managed funds can invest in a range of assets, including companies listed on the Australian stock exchange, Australian corporate bonds or notes, annuities and commercial real estate. 

 Direct investment in residential real estate is prohibited. Indirect investment in residential property through managed funds is strictly limited. 

 You must not use investments as security or collateral for a loan. 

 For more information about complying significant investments, see the Complying Investment Framework information sheet , and for the 1 July 2021 changes see Business Innovation and Investment Program: Getting a better deal for Australia .

Not have a history of involvement in unacceptable activities

You and your partner must have had no history of involvement in business or investment activities that are of a nature that is not generally acceptable in Australia.

Have functional English language

All applicants aged 18 or over at the time of application must either have at least functional English or you will be asked to pay the second instalment of the visa application charge.

Meet our health requirement

You and any family members who apply for the visa with you must meet our health requirement . 

 Family members who are not coming to Australia might also have to meet our health requirement.

Meet our character requirement

You and family members aged 16 years or over who apply for the visa with you must meet our character requirement. 

 Family members who have not applied for this visa must also meet the character requirement.

Sign the Australian values statement

If you and your family members who have applied for this visa are 18 years of age or older at the time of application, you and your family members must: 

 
 have read, or had explained to you, the Life in Australia book 
 sign an Australian Values Statement that confirms you will respect the Australian way of life and obey Australian laws

Have no debt to the Australian government

If you or any family members owe the Australian Government money, you or they must have paid it back or have an approved arrangement in place to pay it back

Not have had a visa cancelled or a previous application refused

We will consider your immigration history when we make a decision on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused. 
 

 In some circumstances you may still apply for a permanent visa if you have had a visa cancelled or an application refused see Limitations on applications in Australia . 
 

 If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia . 
 

 If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application .

Before you apply

You must submit an Expression of Interest (EOI) , be nominated by a State or Territory government agency, or Austrade and then be invited to apply.

Help with your EOI

If you need help with your EOI you can use a registered migration agent or legal practitioner. For information on how to find someone to help you see Who can help you with your application .

Before you submit your EOI

You must submit an expression of interest (EOI) to let us know you want to apply for this visa. 

 Your EOI tells us about your skills, qualifications and investment experience. It lets us know which states and territories you would like to invest in. If you are eligible and a State or Territory government agency or Austrade nominates you, we might then invite you to apply for the visa.

Check your eligibility

Check that you meet all other eligibility criteria for the visa. 

 Each nominator will assess your EOI using their own criteria. Learn more: 

 
 Austrade (Australian Government) 
 Australian Capital Territory 
 New South Wales 
 Northern Territory 
 Queensland 
 South Australia 
 Tasmania 
 Victoria 
 Western Australia

Gather your documents

If you receive an invitation to apply for the visa after you submit your EOI, you will need to provide documents that: 

 
 prove all of the claims you make in your EOI 
 support other eligibility criteria for the visa 
 

 You should have all these documents before you submit your EOI.

Submit an EOI

Submit your EOI via SkillSelect . 

 You can submit it from within or outside Australia. 

 Your EOI is not a visa application. There is no charge for submitting an EOI. 

 Select the Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188). 

 You will receive an email confirming your EOI has been submitted. 
 

 After you submit your expression of interest 

 If you are nominated by an Australian State or Territory government agency or Austrade, we may invite you to apply for this visa.

Stay lawful

An EOI is not a visa application. Submitting an EOI does not mean you will get a Bridging visa. 

 If your current visa will expire before you lodge your subclass 188 visa application, you must apply for another visa to remain in Australia lawfully.

After you submit your EOI

You can change your EOI in SkillSelect if: 

 
 you want to apply for a different visa 
 your circumstances change - for example, if you change your occupation or your family structure changes 
 

 You can't make changes to your EOI after you have received an invitation.

Receive an invitation to apply for visa

You could receive an invitation any time within 2 years of submitting your EOI. If you are invited to apply for the visa, you will receive an email from SkillSelect. Receiving an invitation does not mean you will be granted the visa. 

 If you are invited, you have 60 calendar days to apply for the visa. This time will not be extended. 

 You must demonstrate that you satisfy all eligibility criteria. If you can't meet the eligibility criteria, we will not grant you the visa. 

 If you do not apply for the visa after two invitations, your EOI will be removed from SkillSelect.

If you can't meet the eligibility criteria

If you can't show that you can meet all other eligibility criteria, you should not apply for the visa at this time. If you want to update your EOI you can do that after the 60-day invitation period. 

 If this is your first invitation, you might be sent a second invitation after the 60-day invitation period. 

 If this is your second invitation, you will have to submit another EOI if you still want the visa.

Make changes to your EOI

You can change your EOI in SkillSelect if: 

 
 you want to apply for a different visa 
 your circumstances change - for example, if you change your occupation 
 

 You can't make changes to your EOI after you have received an invitation.

If you do not receive an invitation

If you are not invited to apply within 2 years of submitting your EOI, your EOI will expire. We will send you an email when your EOI is about to expire. 

 You will need to submit a new EOI if you still want the visa.

Make sure your passports are up-to-date

You and your family members who are applying for this visa will need valid passports. If you plan to get a new passport, do this before applying.

Get help with your application

Only some people can help you with your application. If you appoint someone to give you immigration assistance they must be: 

 
 a registered migration agent 
 a legal practitioner , or 
 an exempt person . 
 

 You can appoint anyone to receive documents on your behalf relating to your visa matter.

You will need to prove your identity, and provide documents about your proposed investment. You also need to provide documents about family members applying with you. 

 Applying from China, Macau, Hong Kong or Taiwan 

 If you are applying from the People’s Republic of China, Macau (SAR), Hong Kong (SAR) or Taiwan use the document checklist from the Australian Consulate General Hong Kong .

Provide accurate information

You are obliged to prove your identity and provide true information with your application. See what happens if you can't prove your identity or do not provide true information .

Identity documents

You and family members who apply for the visa with you, must provide: 

 Colour copies of the pages of your current passport showing photo, personal details, and passport issue and expiry dates. 

 Also provide: 

 
 a national identity card, if you have one 
 proof of change of name, if applicable 
 

 Documents that prove a change of name include: 

 
 a marriage or divorce certificate 
 change of name documents from an Australian Registry of Births, Deaths and Marriages, or the relevant overseas authority 
 documents that show other names you have been known by

Significant Investor documents

Evidence of ownership and net value of your business and personal assets

Provide: 

 Form 1139A Statement of Assets and Liabilities Position (SALP) for a date less than 3 months before we invited you to apply for this visa. Indicate on the form which of these assets you intend to use to fund your AUD 5 million complying significant investment. 

 
Evidence to support the ownership of all assets and liabilities and their values on the dates of each SALP. This may include: 

 
 for cash assets: bank statements, showing the account name and balance 
 for real estate assets: title deed, valuation certificate by an accredited property valuer, or mortgage certificate. 
 for personal loans: loan agreements showing the borrower and lender, loan statements showing the amount borrowed and repayment schedule. 
 for stocks and bonds: share or debentures certificates, fixed interest securities, ownership and market value of claimed marketable securities such as bonds. 
 for business assets: financial statements for each business, prepared by an independent accountant to International Accounting Standards, including a balance sheet, profit and loss statement, and notes to the accounts. Your share of ownership in each business must also be evidenced by documents such as: historical company extracts; annual returns of directors and shareholders; partnership, trust or franchise agreements; purchase documents; share transfer documents. 
 

 If you want to include assets held by a trust, you must include a complete copy of the trust deed including all schedules.

How you will make your investment

Provide a list of your intended complying significant investments and the amounts of each investment. Note that you must not make your complying significant investment until after you lodge your application and we invite you to make the investment.

Source of funds

You need to provide your asset portfolio's source of funds 

 You need to provide a signed declaration listing the sources of funds for your asset portfolio, and that these funds were lawfully acquired. 

 Also give us evidence to support your source of funds declaration: 

 
 for business income , give us evidence of business ownership, performance and profit distribution. For example, company registration and shareholder records, financial statements or taxation records 
 for investment income , give us evidence of investment activities and performance. For example, statements issued by stocks trading company, property purchase and sale contracts, leases or investment product contracts. 
 for gifted or inherited assets , give us duly witnessed gift deeds or wills. Also give us other evidence demonstrating how the original owner accumulated the assets 
 for historical accumulation of wealth where official verifiable evidence is no longer available, , give us bank records demonstrating continuous ownership of funds over a substantial period. 
 for assets held in Australia , give us evidence which links the assets to the declared sources 
 

 We will tell you when you need to make the complying investments and when we need this evidence. You must make the complying investment after you have applied for the visa. 

 You will need to show that the funds used to make the complying investments originate from the assets nominated to make the complying investments. The trail of funds must also be reasonably established with supporting evidence

English language documents

Provide proof that you have at least functional English . 

 All applicants (18 years or older at time of applying for this visa) who can't provide evidence of having at least functional English must pay a second instalment of the visa application charge. 

 If you or your dependants have less than functional English, provide a statement indicating your intention to pay the second visa application charge for each person with less than functional English. 

 We will advise you when to pay this.

Health documents

You do not need to provide health documents. The doctor will send them to us.

Character documents

You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa with you, provide: 

 
 Form 80 Personal particulars for assessment including character assessment 
 overseas police certificates from every country , including your home country, where you spent a total of 12 months or more in the last 10 years since you turned 16 
 military service records or discharge papers if you served in the armed forces of any country

Tell us you are getting help

To nominate someone to: 

 
 receive your correspondence, use Form 956A Appointment or withdrawal of an authorised recipient 
 provide immigration assistance, use Form 956 Appointment of a registered migration agent, legal practitioner or exempt person . 
 

 Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount .

Partner documents

Provide your partner 's: 

 
 identity documents 
 character documents 
 documents about other relationships, if applicable 
 

 Provide either: 

 
 your current marriage certificate or 
 enough documents to prove you have been in a de facto relationship with your partner for at least 12 months before you apply 
 

 
 

 Documents that prove your de facto relationship include: 

 
 joint bank account statements 
 billing accounts in joint names 
 joint leases or mortgages 
 documents that show your partner has lived at the same address as you

Dependants under 18 documents

For every dependant 18 years old or younger who is applying with you, provide: 

 
 copies of birth certificates or the family book showing the names of both parents of all your dependent children 
 copies of the adoption paper, if applicable. 
 

 Parental responsibility documents 

 You must get consent for any applicant under 18 years of age to migrate to Australia from anyone who: 

 
 has a legal right to decide where the child lives and 
 is not coming to Australia with the child 
 

 They must complete either: 

 
 Form 1229 Consent form to grant an Australian visa to a child under the age of 18 years 
 a statutory declaration giving their consent for the child to visit Australia on this visa 
 

 Alternatively, you can show us: 

 
 an Australian court order that allows your child to migrate to Australia, or 
 that the laws of your home country allow them to migrate 
 

 Include: 

 
 an identity document that shows the signature and photo of the person who completed the form or declaration, such as a passport or driver’s licence 
 adoption papers or other court documents if applicable 
 

 Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for further information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.

Dependents over 18 documents

To include your child who is over 18 in your visa application, they must be: 

 
 over 18 years of age but not yet turned 23, and dependent on you or your partner, or 
 over 23 years of age and unable to earn a living to support themselves due to physical or cognitive limitations and dependent on you or your partner 
 

 Provide: 

 
 identity documents 
 documents about their other relationships, if applicable 
 character documents 
 

 If your child is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you due to disability. 

 Proof of dependency 

 You must demonstrate that the child is dependent on you, by providing: 

 
 proof of your relationship with the dependant such as a birth certificate or adoption papers 
 a completed Form 47a Details of a child or other dependent family member aged 18 years or over 
 proof of financial dependency such as bank statements, money transfers and rent receipts 
 if the child is aged 23 or is likely to turn 23 while your application is being processed, you must also provide a report from a qualified medical practitioner that states they are dependent on you or your partner due to the total or partial loss of their bodily or mental functions 
 

 You must also prove this person has been financially dependent on you for at least 12 months before you apply. You could provide: 

 
 proof they live with you 
 their tax records 
 proof they are currently studying 
 proof of payments made by you to them or on their behalf 
 

 Note: If your child is likely to turn 18 while your application is being processed, you will need to provide evidence they are dependent on you. See the section 'Dependants over 18 documents' below for further information. A child who turns 18 while your application is being processed and who is not dependent on you cannot satisfy the criteria for this visa.

Prepare your documents

Translate

Have all non-English documents translated into English. 

 Provide original and translated documents in your application. 

 Translators in Australia must be accredited by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters . 

 Translators outside Australia do not have to be accredited. But on each translation, they must include their: 

 
 full name 
 address and telephone number 
 qualifications and experience in the language they are translating 
 

 These details must be in English. 

 Note: You do not need to have any documents certified.

Scan or photograph

Scan or photograph all documents (English and non-English) in colour. 

 The scans and photos must be clear. 

 If a document is more than one page, save it all as one file.

Apply for the visa

Apply for this visa online in ImmiAccount. You must be invited to apply. Your invitation letter contains instructions on how to lodge your application. 

 For all applications lodged from 13 November 2021, applicants should upload supporting documentation to ImmiAccount when lodging a subclass 188 Business Innovation and Investment visa application in all streams. 

 Uploading all documents to ImmiAccount will ensure efficient processing and help to reduce processing times. Please utilise naming conventions provided when uploading supporting documents. Where naming conventions are unavailable for a particular document/s, please ensure that a proper heading is provided to the attached document/s.

You are obliged to prove your identity and provide true information with your application. See what happens if you cannot prove your identity or do not provide true information .

Apply for the visa online in ImmiAccount

Create an account or sign in to ImmiAccount 
 Pay the application charge . 
 Note the transaction reference number (TRN) 
 

 ImmiAccount will tell you the charge. We will not process your application until you pay the correct charge.

Send your documents

For applications lodged prior to 13 November 2021 
 

 After you submit your application online, send us your documents and other forms. 

 If you are applying from the People’s Republic of China, Macau (SAR), Hong Kong (SAR) or Taiwan use the document checklist from the Australian Consulate General Hong Kong . 

 If you live elsewhere, send your supporting documents via email to the mailbox address specified in the Acknowledgement of Application Received letter. You will receive this letter after you lodge your application via ImmiAccount . 

 

 For applications lodged after 13 November 2021 

 For all applications lodged from 13 November 2021, applicants should upload supporting documentation to ImmiAccount when lodging a subclass 188 Business Innovation and Investment visa application in all streams via ImmiAccount .

After you apply

We will let you know when we have received your application.

Status updates

We cannot provide updates on applications. You will be contacted if additional information is required. Please wait for us to contact you.

Travel after you apply

You do not have to tell us if you want to travel outside Australia while we process your application. This is because you can be outside Australia when we make a decision. 

 But if you leave Australia, make sure you have a valid visa if you plan to return to Australia before a decision is made on your application. 

 Learn about visa expiry . 

 Learn about Bridging visas

Health exams

If you did not have health examinations before you applied, we will let you know if you need them.

Biometrics

We might ask for biometrics (fingerprints and photo). We will let you know if you need to provide them.

Provide more information

If you didn't send us all documents when you applied, send them as soon as you can. 

 Applying from China, Macau, Hong Kong or Taiwan 

 If you are applying from the People’s Republic of China, Macau (SAR), Hong Kong (SAR) or Taiwan use the document checklist from the Australian Consulate General Hong Kong . 

 If you live elsewhere, send your supporting documents via email to the mailbox address specified in the Acknowledgement of Application Received letter. You will receive this letter after you lodge your application via ImmiAccount .

Adding family members

You can add your dependent child or children to your application any time before we decide on your application. They will need to meet our health and character (if applicable) requirements. 

 Complete Form 1436 Adding an additional applicant after lodgement and 

 
 send it to the email address we gave you when you sent your application 
 include evidence of the child's relationship to you 
 include other supporting documents for your child, such as identity documents 
 pay the additional application charge 
 

 The spouse or de facto partner of the main applicant who did not make a combined application at the initial lodgement of the subclass 188 visa, can make a subsequent entrant application. A subclass 188 visa can only be granted to a subsequent entrant after the main applicant’s subclass 188 visa is granted. 

 Complete the online 'Application for a Business Innovation and Investment (Subsequent Entrant) Visa' application form in ImmiAccount . An application charge is applicable. 
 

 Newborn children 

 Find out what to do if your child is born after you apply .

Mistakes on your application

Let us know as soon as you can if you made a mistake on your application. 

 Complete Form 1023 Notification of incorrect answers

Make your investment

When we are satisfied that you meet all other criteria for this visa, we will invite you in writing to make a complying significant investment. Do not make your complying significant investment until we invite you to do so, as your visa will not be granted if you cannot satisfy all other criteria for this visa. Any investment made before lodging the application will not meet the requirements of this visa. 

 If we invite you to make a complying significant investment, your invitation letter will state the sources of funds that we have accepted for you to use for the investment. 

 You must make the investment within the timeframe stated in the letter (usually 70 days). 

 When you have made the investment, you must provide our office with: 

 
 Evidence of each transaction that occurred in the movement of funds from the approved sources to each component of the complying significant investment 
 Form 1413D Declaration for each investment component . The form must be signed by the responsible fund manager for each component of the investment after the relevant investment component has been made. 
 If your Venture Capital and Growth Private Equity (VCPE) component has not been finalised at that stage, provide:
 
 If funds are held in a cash management trust: Form 1413D completed by the manager of the trust; or 
 If funds are in an Australian Authorised Deposit Taking Institution (ADI): an account statement showing the funds, and a signed declaration confirming that you will use the funds for investing in VCPE funds. The list of ADIs is on the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) website .

If you are in Australia, make sure you stay lawful by holding a valid visa while we process your application. 

 When you applied for this visa, if you were in Australia, you were granted a Bridging visa A (BVA) . If your current visa expires before we decide on your application, the BVA will start. 

 You can stay in Australia on the BVA while we process your new visa application. However, if you intend to leave Australia and return while holding a BVA, you will need to apply to our office for a Bridging Visa B (BVB) or make alternative visa arrangements to return, as your BVA expires when you leave Australia.” 

 Do not cancel your current visa. If you do, you will: 

 
 be staying in Australia unlawfully 
 not be eligible for a Bridging visa A 
 

 Learn more about visa expiry . 

 Learn about Bridging visas

Help with your application

Let us know if you no longer want someone to: 

 
 receive your correspondence - complete Form 956A Appointment or withdrawal of an authorised recipient 
 provide immigration advice - complete Form 956 Appointment of a registered migration agent, legal practitioner or exempt person . 
 

 Upload your written notification or your forms to ImmiAccount . 

 For more information see Who can help you with your application .

Tell us if things change

Things you need to let us know about after you have applied include: 

 
 changes to your phone number, email, address or passport 
 changes to your marital or de facto status 
 the birth of a child 
 you want to withdraw your application 
 

 See how to tell us if your situation changes

Pay the second instalment

If you need to pay a second instalment , we will send you an invoice after you have met all other requirements for the visa. Pay the invoice after you get it. 

 You must pay the instalment before we will grant the visa.

Visa outcome

We will let you know in writing our decision about your visa application. If we grant you the visa, we will tell you: 

 
 your visa grant number 
 the date your visa starts 
 your visa conditions 
 

 Keep a copy of the decision with you when in Australia. 

 If we refuse your visa, we will tell you why it was refused and whether you have a right to a review of the decision. 

 We will not refund the application fee if we refuse your application.

Before you leave 

 Check your travel documents 

 You must have: 

 
 a valid visa to enter Australia 
 a valid passport or other travel document 
 

 At the border 

 Completing an Incoming Passenger Card 

 All people arriving in Australia must complete the Incoming Passenger Card . You will be given this card onboard the aircraft. 

 Leaving the airport faster 

 We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate .

What you can do when you have this visa 

 This is not a permanent visa. With this visa you can: 

 
 carry out investment activity in Australia 
 travel to, enter and remain in Australia for up to 5 years 
 bring eligible members of your family with you 
 apply for a permanent Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Significant Investor stream if certain requirements are met. 
 

 To see your specific conditions, work and study entitlements use VEVO . 

 What you must do on this visa 

 To see your specific conditions, work and study entitlements use VEVO . 

 In particular, you must maintain your investment and comply with Australian workplace laws. 

 Maintain your investment 

 You must hold a complying significant investment continuously for the life of your provisional visa. 

 Income that you earn from your investment in Australia is subject to Australian taxation law. 

 Follow Australian workplace laws 

 All workers in Australia (including visa holders) have rights and protections at work. Pay rates and workplace conditions are set by Australian law. 

 If you operate a business in Australia, you must comply with workplace laws. The Pay and Conditions Tool (PACT) can help you with pay rates, shift calculations, leave arrangements and notice and redundancy entitlements. 

 Tell us if things change 

 Things you need to let us know about include: 

 
 changes to your phone number, email, address or passport 
 changes to your relationship status 
 the birth of a child 
 

 See how to tell us when your situation changes . 

 See how long you can stay 

 This is a provisional visa. You can stay in Australia for 4 years and 3 months. If you applied before 1 July 2015, you can stay for 4 years. 

 The visa starts on the date we grant it. 

 To see when you must leave, use VEVO . 

 Staying longer 

 This is a provisional visa. You must apply for a new visa if you want to stay longer. Once you have this visa, you can apply for permanent residence if certain requirements are met. Explore your visa options. 

 Apply for permanent residence 

 Once you have the provisional visa, you can apply for the Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) Significant Investor stream if certain requirements are met. 

 If you applied for a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) in the Significant Investor stream prior to 1 July 2015, you will be eligible to apply for a Business Innovation and Investment (Permanent) visa (subclass 888) in the Significant Investor stream after 3 years and 11 months. 

 Extend your stay in Australia 

 If you need more time to apply for permanent residence, you can apply for a Business Innovation and Investment (Provisional) visa (subclass 188) Significant Investor Extension stream to extend your stay in Australia. 

 A person can be granted a maximum of 2 visas in this stream. 

 Travelling on your visa 

 This is a multiple entry visa. You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid. 

 The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa. 

 See your conditions . 

 Proving you have a visa 

 To prove you have a visa and/or show your conditions to someone, use VEVO. 

 Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia. 

 Bringing family 

 After you are granted this visa, if members of your family want to apply for the same visa, they must submit a separate online application. Any additional family members are called 'subsequent entrants'. 

 Newborn and dependent child or children can be added to your 188 visa application before we decide on your application. However, your spouse or de-facto partner, who did not make a combined application with you at the initial lodgement of your application, can apply for the 188 visa under subsequent entrant. A subclass 188 visa can only be granted to a subsequent entrant after the main applicant’s subclass 188 visa is granted. 

 Complete the online 'Application for a Business Innovation and Investment (Subsequent Entrant) Visa' application form in ImmiAccount . An application charge is applicable.

Before you leave 

 Check your travel documents 

 You must have a valid passport or other travel document to leave Australia. 

 At the Border 

 Leaving the airport faster 

 We have an automated process that uses facial recognition technology and your ePassport. You might be able to leave the airport faster if you use SmartGate . 

 After you leave 

 Proving you have been to Australia 

 Request your international movement records to get proof of your travel in and out of Australia.

New Criteria Title

New Step Title

Question block with hyperlink

7232793f-17d7-40a0-ae29-3b56a8191b3d

Home

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/home

ab23f32d-eb28-4a7f-b640-e3b8cb799510

Entering and leaving Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia

/entering-and-leaving-australia

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/default.aspx

a408d8b4-10a6-4d1a-9d3a-70d2f001e92e

Entering Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/entering-australia

/entering-and-leaving-australia/entering-australia

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/Entering/Overview.aspx

8ff2f5f2-9b4a-470d-af8e-70d784d7d897

Overview

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/entering-australia/overview

/entering-and-leaving-australia/entering-australia/overview

e09c0eb3-8195-4cc1-9afc-1897d3de5b76

Can you go to Australia?

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/entering-australia/can-i-go-to-australia

/entering-and-leaving-australia/entering-australia/can-i-go-to-australia

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/Entering/Can-I-go-to-australia.aspx

bc9c8b30-462c-4384-968e-cd05ac8ca618

Re-entry ban

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/entering-australia/can-i-go-to-australia/re-entry-ban

/entering-and-leaving-australia/entering-australia/can-i-go-to-australia/re-entry-ban

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/Entering/Re-entry-ban.aspx

9e3c8bbd-2da9-4947-977a-361bab5aeb1c

Crossing the border

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/entering-australia/crossing-the-border

/entering-and-leaving-australia/entering-australia/crossing-the-border

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/Entering/Crossing-the-border.aspx

197dde43-d36f-42ea-9b3c-f77886d982d8

Non-citizens seeking to enter Australia claiming to be an Aboriginal Australian

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/entering-australia/crossing-the-border/non-citizens-indigenous-australian

/entering-and-leaving-australia/entering-australia/crossing-the-border/non-citizens-indigenous-australian

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/Entering/non-citizen-aboriginal-australian.aspx

0044ed99-a0c5-426f-882d-b4d29a04aa44

Travel documents for Australian citizens and permanent residents

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/entering-australia/crossing-the-border/travel-documents-for-australian-citizens-and-permanent-residents

/entering-and-leaving-australia/entering-australia/crossing-the-border/travel-documents-for-australian-citizens-and-permanent-residents

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/Entering/return-documents.aspx

372ce2ac-87eb-4929-86f7-9539e08686cc

Can you bring it in?

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/entering-australia/can-i-bring-it-in

/entering-and-leaving-australia/entering-australia/can-i-bring-it-in

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/Entering/Can-I-bring-it-in.aspx

66634585-0e37-49a7-9926-c24d66515969

Duty free

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/entering-australia/duty-free

/entering-and-leaving-australia/entering-australia/duty-free

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/Entering/duty-free.aspx

4ec90f81-b53e-40c4-9661-e2926609577d

Leaving Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/leaving-australia

/entering-and-leaving-australia/leaving-australia

/supporting/Pages/Work/access-your-superannuation.aspx

b18cf4eb-f06b-4bc8-aa47-940220bb429b

access your superannuation

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/leaving-australia/access-your-superannuation

/entering-and-leaving-australia/leaving-australia/access-your-superannuation

d5da45fc-bc20-4b43-b754-87a5dcc726a0

Business travel card

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/business-travel-card

/entering-and-leaving-australia/business-travel-card

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/Business-travel-card-apec/Overview.aspx

06b05e5b-180d-4267-8906-55d45e4ab1f4

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/business-travel-card/overview

/entering-and-leaving-australia/business-travel-card/overview

64a0c366-c275-408b-a3cd-20e90852d464

Australian citizens

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/business-travel-card/australian-citizens

/entering-and-leaving-australia/business-travel-card/australian-citizens

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/Business-travel-card-apec/australian-citizens.aspx

896d7cef-fb76-4d1f-9b71-3d3f45ff870c

Virtual APEC Business Travel Card (VABTC)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/business-travel-card/australian-citizens/virtual-apec-business-travel-card

/entering-and-leaving-australia/business-travel-card/australian-citizens/virtual-apec-business-travel-card

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/Business-travel-card-apec/virtual-apec-business-travel-card.aspx

a85d3878-09e8-4056-8593-ad20c3ef7652

Foreign applicants

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/business-travel-card/foreign-applicants

/entering-and-leaving-australia/business-travel-card/foreign-applicants

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/Business-travel-card-apec/foreign-applicants.aspx

f640fa8e-cf48-4dbf-be6f-e5ddba4306cf

New Zealand citizens

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/new-zealand-citizens

/entering-and-leaving-australia/new-zealand-citizens

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/New Zealand Citizen/Overview.aspx

9ef13c97-0bd9-484a-a3c6-3f06b79877b6

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/new-zealand-citizens/overview

/entering-and-leaving-australia/new-zealand-citizens/overview

108b1332-8476-4c5f-898c-c8c53c27459b

Eligibility requirements

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/new-zealand-citizens/entry-requirements

/entering-and-leaving-australia/new-zealand-citizens/entry-requirements

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/New Zealand Citizen/Entry-requirements.aspx

a4e7a09d-7635-414d-a1c9-a3e710b0062e

Entitlements

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/new-zealand-citizens/entitlements

/entering-and-leaving-australia/new-zealand-citizens/entitlements

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/New Zealand Citizen/entitlements.aspx

e41c848d-05fa-4cd0-881e-fe45d5c42d25

Pathway to permanent residence or citizenship

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/new-zealand-citizens/pathway-to-permanent-resident-and-citizenship

/entering-and-leaving-australia/new-zealand-citizens/pathway-to-permanent-resident-and-citizenship

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/New Zealand Citizen/Pathway-to-pr-and-citz.aspx

Pathway to permanent residence and citizenship

08245f6c-313b-4d0d-8554-1fa02cc27480

Your family

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/new-zealand-citizens/your-family

/entering-and-leaving-australia/new-zealand-citizens/your-family

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/New Zealand Citizen/Your-family.aspx

d3701dc8-1982-45dd-88c9-85f9e47fbd08

Requesting your travel records

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/request-movement-records

/entering-and-leaving-australia/request-movement-records

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/Requesting-travel-records.aspx

e46cb9e8-c09a-4d3b-8d85-f32fd5c94fe2

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/request-movement-records/overview

/entering-and-leaving-australia/request-movement-records/overview

b577f80d-6bfb-4401-ac70-5a3942338da2

Apply

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/request-movement-records/apply

/entering-and-leaving-australia/request-movement-records/apply

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/apply.aspx

3a7621dc-c83c-40c5-ba37-97bc31d2c25c

Document checklists

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/request-movement-records/document-checklists

/entering-and-leaving-australia/request-movement-records/document-checklists

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/document-checklists.aspx

e9f7b9a3-71fb-4854-9478-42f6f0519982

Travelling as a dual citizen

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/traveling-as-a-dual-citizen

/entering-and-leaving-australia/traveling-as-a-dual-citizen

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/Travelling-as-a-dual-citizen.aspx

0ec1ef00-c45d-4d13-855e-703375b461fb

Travelling and your visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/travelling-and-your-visa

/entering-and-leaving-australia/travelling-and-your-visa

8199bbf9-764b-4d6c-84eb-5550bd0d7d7f

Travel on a bridging visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/travelling-and-your-visa/travel-on-a-bridging-visa

/entering-and-leaving-australia/travelling-and-your-visa/travel-on-a-bridging-visa

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/Travelling-and-your-visa/Travel-on-a-bridging-visa.aspx

3b3128c9-5e77-4bdd-a7dd-62abcbed6141

Travel while your visa is being processed

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/travelling-and-your-visa/travel-while-your-visa-is-being-processed

/entering-and-leaving-australia/travelling-and-your-visa/travel-while-your-visa-is-being-processed

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/Travelling-and-your-visa/Travel-while-your-visa-is-being-processed.aspx

785b58f2-bb9b-4c25-8f8b-8b2ab3c5b398

Proof of identity

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/proof-of-identity

/entering-and-leaving-australia/proof-of-identity

/redirect-subsite/Pages/immicard-overview.aspx

e50c1b8a-ba57-4098-9c88-9d83141c2029

Eligibility

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/proof-of-identity/eligibility

/entering-and-leaving-australia/proof-of-identity/eligibility

/redirect-subsite/Pages/immicard-eligibility.aspx

af3a5537-66d8-48c2-a28c-203e37d6cc50

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/proof-of-identity/overview

/entering-and-leaving-australia/proof-of-identity/overview

9201a6c6-0d37-46ef-9096-75ad86438eee

Step by step

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/proof-of-identity/step-by-step

/entering-and-leaving-australia/proof-of-identity/step-by-step

/redirect-subsite/Pages/immicard-step-by-step.aspx

4e6fa020-2a8a-4dbd-bed0-19c3b05e735f

When you have your immicard

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/proof-of-identity/when-you-have-your-immicard

/entering-and-leaving-australia/proof-of-identity/when-you-have-your-immicard

/redirect-subsite/Pages/immicard-when-you-have-your-your-immicard.aspx

75f7d4c8-3419-42fd-aae1-5a58afcd2416

Update details on my immicard dftta or pL056

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/proof-of-identity/when-you-have-your-immicard/update-details-on-my-immicard-dftta-or-pl056

/entering-and-leaving-australia/proof-of-identity/when-you-have-your-immicard/update-details-on-my-immicard-dftta-or-pl056

/redirect-subsite/Pages/immicard-update-details.aspx

75b939c0-be5d-42bc-9b2b-421344c09a04

United States Global Entry program

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/entering-and-leaving-australia/global-entry-program

/entering-and-leaving-australia/global-entry-program

/redirect-subsite/Pages/united-states-global-entry-program.aspx

231e84e5-c935-4f6a-97e1-40207f32f823

Visas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas

80baf9b7-ab02-442e-a1d1-ce78439c78df

Getting a visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa

/Visa-subsite/Pages/default.aspx

6dcd3d4f-8c94-4680-85ce-7adadf8d5b47

Explore visa options

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder

/Visa-subsite/Pages/explore-visa-options.aspx

540747fc-4432-4ea8-bda9-5f63208400f0

Explore visa options (in Australia)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/explore-visas-onshore

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/explore-visas-onshore

/Visa-subsite/Pages/extend-expired-visas/Extend-stay.aspx

043f7f77-6a18-4436-949e-1db2a29674a4

Join family

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/join-family

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/join-family

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/explore-visa-options-join-family.aspx

573ca6e2-1583-4b92-9699-f8065460e9f2

PNG Chiefs

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/png-chiefs

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/png-chiefs

/Visa-subsite/arrangements-for-nrl-png-chiefs/Pages/special-visa-arrangements-for-png-chiefs-players-club-officials-fans-media.aspx

cf7da93c-6069-435b-a48c-abe45bd93dfa

Refugee and humanitarian

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/refugee-and-humanitarian

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/refugee-and-humanitarian

/Visa-subsite/Pages/refugee-and-humanitarian/explore-visa-options-refugee.aspx

3f0f6bc4-a5bd-47cd-98d0-1b0556abe35a

Study

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/study

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/study

/Visa-subsite/Pages/student/explore-visa-options-study.aspx

034ad05f-d7b6-428a-974a-e4095ed1880e

Visa finder disclaimer

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/visa-finder-disclaimer

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/visa-finder-disclaimer

/Pages/Visa-finder-disclaimer.aspx

c04efc6a-80b4-4b85-a2b4-fe69ebeefb5f

Visit

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/visit

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/visit

/Visa-subsite/Pages/visit/explore-visa-options-visit.aspx

9bf3aee3-3f0b-408d-8753-da04cdd837e8

Work

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/work

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-finder/work

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/explore-visa-options-work.aspx

a0bd9167-03fb-404e-a82f-bca8174fce4c

List of all visas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing

/Visa-subsite/Pages/visa-listing.aspx

17c320b4-d8c5-4c48-a118-905d1378bda3

Adoption visa (subclass 102)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/adoption-102

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/adoption-102

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/102-adoption-visa.aspx

9bd1d156-42ff-4bcb-8a9a-a7e1f00845b7

Measures for the protection of children

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/adoption-102/measures-for-the-protection-of-children

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/adoption-102/measures-for-the-protection-of-children

/supporting/Pages/Family/measures-protection-children.aspx

9362a99e-590d-450a-9b31-741cdb2005bc

Aged Dependent Relative visa (subclass 114)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/aged-dependent-relative-114

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/aged-dependent-relative-114

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/114-aged-dependent-relative.aspx

ea63a739-6850-40fb-a10d-7f3a4c4843e5

Aged Dependent Relative visa (subclass 838)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/aged-dependent-relative-838

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/aged-dependent-relative-838

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/838-aged-dependent-relative-visa.aspx

1bc1b1e6-6375-43ae-b124-050948ab3a5d

Aged Parent visa (subclass 804)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/aged-parent-804

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/aged-parent-804

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/804-aged-parent.aspx

16aa98b1-e7fc-4fd9-8c66-4d1dd19bf480

Balance of family test

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/aged-parent-804/balance-of-family-test

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/aged-parent-804/balance-of-family-test

/supporting/Pages/Family/Balance-of-family-test.aspx

dadbb92c-7138-4e80-9dfc-0ecc0baa7bea

Bridging visa A (subclass 010)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/bridging-visa-a-010

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/bridging-visa-a-010

/Visa-subsite/Pages/other-visas/010-bridging-visa-a.aspx

e3c2957a-e7c9-4086-984d-82f155610e5e

Bridging visa B (subclass 020)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/bridging-visa-b-020

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/bridging-visa-b-020

/Visa-subsite/Pages/other-visas/020-bridging-visa-b.aspx

994daa95-d7dc-4a56-8ef8-2365a314653a

Bridging visa C (subclass 030)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/bridging-visa-c-030

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/bridging-visa-c-030

/Visa-subsite/Pages/other-visas/030-bridging-visa-c.aspx

4ba3e4bd-b6aa-4544-8948-eee6c3fd88f2

Bridging visa D (subclass 040 and 041)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/bridging-visa-d-040-041

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/bridging-visa-d-040-041

117c0c0f-ba36-4e8d-8843-939d6534e55e

Bridging visa E (subclass 050/051)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/bridging-visa-e-050-051

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/bridging-visa-e-050-051

/Visa-subsite/Pages/other-visas/bridging-visa-e.aspx

6a186fbe-67b5-4ad8-87b4-df6769cc986d

Subclass 050

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/bridging-visa-e-050-051/subclass-050

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/bridging-visa-e-050-051/subclass-050

/Visa-subsite/Pages/other-visas/050-bridging-visa-e.aspx

99264206-4453-42a3-8144-74b25e819f0a

Subclass 051

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/bridging-visa-e-050-051/subclass-051

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/bridging-visa-e-050-051/subclass-051

/Visa-subsite/Pages/other-visas/051-bridging-visa-e.aspx

22406097-9933-4084-b823-208b21084cd1

Business Innovation and Investment (permanent) visa (subclass 888)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-888

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-888

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/888-business-innovation-investment-permanent-landing.aspx

c7d6d21d-6c71-4036-af54-23f66a6ede57

Business innovation stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-888/business-innovation-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-888/business-innovation-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/888-business-innovation.aspx

04c65878-da2f-4e7b-9ba2-3b739d64c19d

Entrepreneur stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-888/entrepreneur-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-888/entrepreneur-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/888-entrepreneur.aspx

85ae204c-ba7e-481a-a481-f59d076042e4

Investor stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-888/investor-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-888/investor-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/888-investor-stream.aspx

f129ac70-7cfa-4b83-b2df-a466a2662306

Premium investor stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-888/premium-investor

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-888/premium-investor

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/888-premium-investor.aspx

1d46eefe-0140-4256-ad80-00e0be3aea1b

Significant investor stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-888/significant-investor-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-888/significant-investor-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/888-significant-investor.aspx

2791e470-15b4-4166-871b-3975de1210cc

Business Innovation and Investment (provisional) visa (subclass 188)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-188

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-188

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/188-business-innovation-investment-landing.aspx

0098095e-9c7a-42b0-9bca-5c65e0b029eb

Business innovation extension stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-188/business-innovation-extension-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-188/business-innovation-extension-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/188-business-Innovation-extension-stream.aspx

0b0ce386-e6fb-4017-bd3e-c7a2c07caa42

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-188/business-innovation-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-188/business-innovation-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/188-business-innovation-stream.aspx

4191faa9-66bf-45a7-b88e-0347ea43ba1b

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-188/entrepreneur-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-188/entrepreneur-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/188-entrepreneur-stream.aspx

dd487340-7748-4569-ad1e-013a37d49ae0

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-188/investor-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-188/investor-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/188-investor.aspx

95ee657e-6051-4405-8e8f-60083a7b8d71

Points table

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-188/points-table

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-188/points-table

/supporting/Pages/Work/188-points-table.aspx

d72d91e5-d7b4-454c-9aca-c75146b720b0

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-188/premium-investor

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-188/premium-investor

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/188-premium-investor-stream.aspx

a53fa689-acf0-4c69-81d5-6593dd0d05c8

Significant investor extension stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-188/significant-investor-extension-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-188/significant-investor-extension-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/188-significant-investor-extension-stream.aspx

60230001-e7f2-46dc-8a05-4b68b37dda79

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-188/significant-investor-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-innovation-and-investment-188/significant-investor-stream

bb885d87-de82-41f4-aad5-ddaf88358fe1

Business owner visa (subclass 890)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-owner-890

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-owner-890

/redirect-subsite/Pages/business-owner-subclass-890-visa.aspx

1dae1068-2b8c-49f8-9462-9e7ecd4e0a13

Business Talent (Permanent) visa (subclass 132)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-talent-permanent-132

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-talent-permanent-132

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/132-business-talent-permanent-landing.aspx

679b35fe-a458-46d3-8ee0-513761ea483b

Monitoring Business Talent

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-talent-permanent-132/monitoring-business-talent

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-talent-permanent-132/monitoring-business-talent

/supporting/Pages/Work/monitoring-business-talent-permanent-visa-subclass-132.aspx

99e7449e-1cca-4005-b6fb-d6d5c3e91e03

Significant Business History stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-talent-permanent-132/significant-business-history-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-talent-permanent-132/significant-business-history-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/132-significant-business-history.aspx

74425c3e-3e46-493a-baf5-5bebee991fd6

Venture Capital Entrepreneur stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-talent-permanent-132/venture-capital-entrepreneur-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/business-talent-permanent-132/venture-capital-entrepreneur-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/132-venture-capital-entrepreneur-stream.aspx

be39e47f-d45c-4bba-b7e6-7d75dc49006b

Carer visa (subclass 116)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/carer-116

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/carer-116

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/116-carer-visa.aspx

5aca85b6-988d-404c-8e49-8474a749080c

Carer visa (subclass 836)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/carer-836

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/carer-836

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/836-carer-visa.aspx

0f14d0cd-3561-4c05-b5f3-cef949cfdb53

Changes to Student visa application rules (subclasses 500 ＆ 590)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/changes-to-student-visa-application-rules-500-590

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/changes-to-student-visa-application-rules-500-590

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Changes to Student visa application rules/changes-to-student-visa-application-rules-500-590.aspx

Changes to Student visa application rules (subclasses 500 & 590)

5cb528eb-cafd-4e9d-85f8-35174d334824

Applying for a Student visa or Student Guardian visa while in Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/changes-to-student-visa-application-rules-500-590/applying-in-australia

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/changes-to-student-visa-application-rules-500-590/applying-in-australia

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Changes to Student visa application rules/applying-for-a-student-visa-or-student-guardian-visa-while-in-australia.aspx

af788895-9dc7-4c0e-a378-4071ea368c9a

Including or adding family members

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/changes-to-student-visa-application-rules-500-590/family-members

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/changes-to-student-visa-application-rules-500-590/family-members

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Changes to Student visa application rules/including-or-adding-family-members.aspx

82083de3-b9e9-4d10-bb39-900d8d6427bd

What you need to do

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/changes-to-student-visa-application-rules-500-590/what-you-need-to-do

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/changes-to-student-visa-application-rules-500-590/what-you-need-to-do

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Changes to Student visa application rules/what-you-need-to-do.aspx

96c6136e-9a28-4a23-a925-f4e2fd677c63

Child visa (subclass 101)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/child-101

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/child-101

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/101-child-visa.aspx

262fb99b-fd2b-49da-983d-565c2068c314

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/child-101/measures-for-the-protection-of-children

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/child-101/measures-for-the-protection-of-children

52c16d2e-1a44-4249-a2b0-168ca7b542c1

Child visa (subclass 802)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/child-802

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/child-802

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/802-child-visa.aspx

2e82634b-b6e3-482e-b62d-e63324db8b50

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/child-802/measures-for-the-protection-of-children

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/child-802/measures-for-the-protection-of-children

583fd97b-d56a-4b38-8414-893f67d80a51

Confirmatory residence subclass 808

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/confirmatory-residence-subclass-808

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/confirmatory-residence-subclass-808

/redirect-subsite/Pages/confirmatory-residence-visa-subclass-808-redirect.aspx

ebda66ac-ac34-4089-b0d9-5546cb09ba4e

Contributory Aged Parent (Temporary) visa (subclass 884)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/contributory-aged-parent-temporary-884

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/contributory-aged-parent-temporary-884

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/884-contributory-aged-parent-temporary.aspx

fa269900-4aa1-4417-a4e0-946ce059a812

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/contributory-aged-parent-temporary-884/balance-of-family-test

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/contributory-aged-parent-temporary-884/balance-of-family-test

591381da-2aba-4101-8080-949a93973e75

Contributory Aged Parent visa (subclass 864)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/contributory-aged-parent-864

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/contributory-aged-parent-864

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/864-contributory-aged-parent.aspx

8e46a122-948d-4423-87e7-0fbf94f6706e

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/contributory-aged-parent-864/balance-of-family-test

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/contributory-aged-parent-864/balance-of-family-test

c2455084-a943-4958-bd5b-ffa305f34429

Contributory Parent visa (subclass 143)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/contributory-parent-143

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/contributory-parent-143

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/143-contributory-parent.aspx

dffcba9d-8c22-4684-8206-be984f42e360

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/contributory-parent-143/balance-of-family-test

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/contributory-parent-143/balance-of-family-test

401760e9-cc19-458d-8de8-800d65a0dd0c

Contributory Parent visa (subclass 173)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/contributory-parent-temporary-173

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/contributory-parent-temporary-173

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/173-contributory-parent-temporary.aspx

bc7aa780-a63f-49dc-95a9-796b5a243e36

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/contributory-parent-temporary-173/balance-of-family-test

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/contributory-parent-temporary-173/balance-of-family-test

3fad5ae7-2cd6-453b-a5de-e652b4c46922

Crew Travel Authority (subclass 942)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/crew-travel-authority-942

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/crew-travel-authority-942

/Visa-subsite/Pages/other-visas/942-crew-travel-authority.aspx

f38416c4-1d6e-461e-8c50-41220d46fecc

Dependent Child visa (subclass 445)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/dependent-child-445

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/dependent-child-445

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/445-dependent-child.aspx

86581c8b-bdd6-4d89-b29f-e420b587ee3c

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/dependent-child-445/measures-for-the-protection-of-children

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/dependent-child-445/measures-for-the-protection-of-children

067b5381-a7c5-41a8-b4f2-9c7df7317ca8

Distinguished Talent visa (subclass 124)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/distinguished-talent-124

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/distinguished-talent-124

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/124-distinguished-talent.aspx

68b85432-38a8-4c26-801c-c4340dbd82e7

Distinguished Talent visa (subclass 858)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/distinguished-talent-858

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/distinguished-talent-858

/redirect-subsite/Pages/distinguished-talent-858-redirect.aspx

946024ad-327e-44cb-949b-cf8c7c18b9a9

Electronic Travel Authority (subclass 601)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/electronic-travel-authority-601

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/electronic-travel-authority-601

/Visa-subsite/Pages/visit/601-eta.aspx

46c32242-7b30-43ff-ac05-df0eb917c124

ETA video guides

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/electronic-travel-authority-601/eta-video-guides

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/electronic-travel-authority-601/eta-video-guides

/redirect-subsite/Pages/eta-video-guides.aspx

658f59a7-b5d8-4462-b547-97e2fbf7a08d

Emergency rescue visa (subclass 203)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/emergency-rescue-203

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/emergency-rescue-203

9854799e-ab91-4340-8039-80df49df311c

Employer Nomination Scheme (subclass 186)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/employer-nomination-scheme-186

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/employer-nomination-scheme-186

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/186-employer-nomination-scheme.aspx

5df4408e-1ed3-4e17-b9b8-656a737fe747

Direct entry stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/employer-nomination-scheme-186/direct-entry-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/employer-nomination-scheme-186/direct-entry-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/186-direct-entry-stream.aspx

21daeff8-7265-4a42-9273-96751ccaebbf

Labour agreement stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/employer-nomination-scheme-186/labour-agreement-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/employer-nomination-scheme-186/labour-agreement-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/186-labour-agreement-stream.aspx

b51342e1-a457-4820-b440-be4e7b23426d

Regional postcodes

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/employer-nomination-scheme-186/regional-postcodes

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/employer-nomination-scheme-186/regional-postcodes

/supporting/Pages/Work/187-regional-postcodes.aspx

b721f1de-9990-454c-889c-63bc088c9bc3

Temporary residence transition stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/employer-nomination-scheme-186/temporary-residence-transition-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/employer-nomination-scheme-186/temporary-residence-transition-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/186-temporary-residence-transition-stream.aspx

bbfb0d83-c878-4b48-ba8a-1e59cf000bf3

eVisitor (subclass 651)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/evisitor-651

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/evisitor-651

/Visa-subsite/Pages/visit/651-evisitor.aspx

199eed87-4daf-411f-856f-f0a7ec72e26b

Former Resident visa (subclass 151)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/former-resident-151

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/former-resident-151

/Visa-subsite/Pages/other-visas/151-former-resident-visa.aspx

fe2e0bde-e558-4309-86d3-5a9f601b5c95

Global Special Humanitarian (subclass 202)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/global-special-humanitarian-202

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/global-special-humanitarian-202

/Visa-subsite/Pages/refugee-and-humanitarian/202-global-special-humanitarian-visa.aspx

367f3a74-3855-4c1a-906f-b8f793088696

Global Talent Visa 858

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/global-talent-visa-858

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/global-talent-visa-858

/redirect-subsite/Pages/global-talent-visa-to-niv-visa.aspx

90c8cd89-60ba-4b4d-ab31-559dffd02377

In country Special Humanitarian (subclass 201)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/in-country-special-humanitarian-201

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/in-country-special-humanitarian-201

8ed5058c-db25-41cd-8b27-830f748bcf29

Investor Retirement (subclass 405)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/investor-retirement-405

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/investor-retirement-405

1f21b028-a250-4972-82dd-7b3bcb1ffa5d

Investor visa (subclass 891)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/investor-891

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/investor-891

/redirect-subsite/Pages/investor-subclass-891-visa.aspx

95adc3d7-8334-4a72-84f6-8918e6c63da3

Maritime Crew visa (subclass 988)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/maritime-crew-988

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/maritime-crew-988

/Visa-subsite/Pages/other-visas/988-maritime-crew.aspx

9618478b-d329-41ed-a298-7992313b4844

COVID-19 requirements for maritime crew

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/maritime-crew-988/covid-19-requirements

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/maritime-crew-988/covid-19-requirements

/supporting/Pages/Other/covid-19-requirements-maritime-crew.aspx

aa239003-ce36-453a-a303-fc360642effa

Medical Treatment visa (subclass 602)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/medical-treatment-602

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/medical-treatment-602

/Visa-subsite/Pages/other-visas/602-medical-treatment.aspx

d32f93e9-e610-4512-8399-03e6baf7380b

National Innovation visa (subclass 858)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/national-innovation-visa-858

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/national-innovation-visa-858

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/858-distinguished-talent.aspx

a7ebbd61-446d-4ebb-b0d6-e7f24ef15f38

New Zealand Citizen Family Relationship (Temporary) visa (subclass 461)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/new-zealand-citizen-family-relationship-temporary-461

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/new-zealand-citizen-family-relationship-temporary-461

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/461-new-zealand-citizen-family-relationship.aspx

e89f9fdd-b05e-4718-b443-c6c199b613c7

Orphan relative (subclass 117)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/orphan-relative-117

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/orphan-relative-117

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/117-orphan-relative.aspx

80f5322a-ec7e-41d6-99db-8a1236d33fb4

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/orphan-relative-117/measures-for-the-protection-of-children

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/orphan-relative-117/measures-for-the-protection-of-children

6a735773-69f6-40ff-ada1-c586819b8ea4

Orphan Relative (subclass 837)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/orphan-relative-837

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/orphan-relative-837

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/837-orphan-relative.aspx

4696aee7-6d4b-40cf-8f7a-864697c9b671

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/orphan-relative-837/measures-for-the-protection-of-children

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/orphan-relative-837/measures-for-the-protection-of-children

5a8ba6ae-b050-4ef9-bb7e-b15e79524c63

Pacific Engagement

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/pacific-engagement.aspx

0ec7d331-0c64-431f-b42e-a2d99101c37d

Pacific Engagement stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-pacific-engagement-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-pacific-engagement-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/pacific-engagement-stream.aspx

76017351-5ccc-440d-ab85-8a50955309aa

Ballot registration

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-pacific-engagement-stream/ballot-registration

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-pacific-engagement-stream/ballot-registration

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/overview.aspx

1072ba93-ebff-488e-a08f-e127e9a4b7ac

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-pacific-engagement-stream/ballot-registration/overview

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-pacific-engagement-stream/ballot-registration/overview

42c360ef-9365-4142-89d1-fa3c258e0af6

Ballot Eligibility

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-pacific-engagement-stream/ballot-registration/ballot-eligibility

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-pacific-engagement-stream/ballot-registration/ballot-eligibility

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/ballot-eligibility.aspx

156e07d9-06b0-41c6-a365-d93705bdee37

Ballot country status

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-pacific-engagement-stream/ballot-registration/ballot-country-status

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-pacific-engagement-stream/ballot-registration/ballot-country-status

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/ballot-country-status.aspx

630d2256-bb9f-4886-ad7e-25c1b3fabd97

How to register

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-pacific-engagement-stream/ballot-registration/how-to-register

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-pacific-engagement-stream/ballot-registration/how-to-register

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/how-to-register.aspx

cbf9b4a6-97c6-40bc-9d65-1df9cb8e5da8

After you register

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-pacific-engagement-stream/ballot-registration/after-you-register

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-pacific-engagement-stream/ballot-registration/after-you-register

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/after-you-register.aspx

718df909-4235-4a91-84d7-d5e28b7b2f48

Pacific Engagement visa (subclass 192) - Pacific Engagement stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-pacific-engagement-stream/pacific-engagement-stream-visa

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-pacific-engagement-stream/pacific-engagement-stream-visa

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/pacific-engagement-visa-192.aspx

baf6a79c-d004-4eb0-a5c3-438be93ce70c

Treaty stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-treaty-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-treaty-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/pacific-engagement-visa-treaty-stream.aspx

440b7edb-e43b-4574-ac8d-5be2404a0e83

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-treaty-stream/ballot-registration

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-treaty-stream/ballot-registration

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/pev-treaty-stream-ballot.aspx

44bb7a63-5b7a-43fc-95e8-7f8eb602462e

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-treaty-stream/ballot-registration/overview

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-treaty-stream/ballot-registration/overview

058849b9-6790-4e25-a986-bfe070da1774

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-treaty-stream/ballot-registration/ballot-eligibility

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-treaty-stream/ballot-registration/ballot-eligibility

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/pev-treaty-stream-ballot-eligibility.aspx

c98d58b0-4cce-44b4-b9cf-15d46a28886a

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-treaty-stream/ballot-registration/ballot-country-status

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-treaty-stream/ballot-registration/ballot-country-status

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/pev-treaty-stream-ballot-country-status.aspx

f90e3e72-ecf3-488e-b741-0833fffa63cd

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-treaty-stream/ballot-registration/how-to-register

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-treaty-stream/ballot-registration/how-to-register

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/pev-treaty-stream-how-to-register.aspx

71c9bacb-00ff-4dfe-a7d9-d0195af1b5c1

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-treaty-stream/ballot-registration/after-you-register

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-treaty-stream/ballot-registration/after-you-register

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/pev-treaty-stream-after-you-register.aspx

e420e42d-b445-4ca8-a4ac-a44a09d12a15

Treaty stream (Tuvalu)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-treaty-stream/treaty-stream-tuvalu

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/subclass-192-treaty-stream/treaty-stream-tuvalu

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/treaty-stream-tuvalu.aspx

f1f3f60b-88ad-411a-93cb-e7adf53e4447

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/ballot-registration

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/ballot-registration

09d73147-4405-4732-99b7-6b88454d47a0

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/ballot-registration/overview

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/ballot-registration/overview

1418ddc0-cc29-4249-8b8e-54467b4e7fda

Ballot eligibility

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/ballot-registration/ballot-eligibility

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/ballot-registration/ballot-eligibility

142d9321-2340-4bf3-8a6b-de52b8403cda

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/ballot-registration/ballot-country-status

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/ballot-registration/ballot-country-status

baf50b76-b43d-4834-9f1f-a9733d6d83cd

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/ballot-registration/how-to-register

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/ballot-registration/how-to-register

95ab4172-60f2-4312-9606-9bb6bef3087c

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/ballot-registration/after-you-register

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/ballot-registration/after-you-register

97eb2fbf-145e-43cc-9baa-e99be61f2370

Pacific Engagement visa (subclass 192)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/pacific-engagement-visa-subclass-192

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/pacific-engagement-visa-subclass-192

ae4b9d98-42cd-4ce4-b28e-0a79a44faf5b

Meeting the health requirement

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/meeting-the-health-requirement

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement/meeting-the-health-requirement

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/meeting-the-health-requirement.aspx

403372f8-2e91-4f73-8921-74e9552c289d

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement-visa-192

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/pacific-engagement-visa-192

be0e8488-2350-488f-b4a5-4f922f74b111

Parent visa (subclass 103)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/parent-103

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/parent-103

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/103-parent.aspx

0ba1c843-e516-4e5f-bee8-3cd2c352760e

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/parent-103/balance-of-family-test

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/parent-103/balance-of-family-test

3b1ae96b-80de-4a17-a665-dbd72b3f6a89

Parent visa queue

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/parent-103/parent-visa-queue

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/parent-103/parent-visa-queue

c2de5c98-2a3c-4470-9f06-0735c4eda8e3

Partner visa (subclasses 309/100)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-offshore

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-offshore

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/partner-offshore-landing.aspx

fbe1aa85-6e50-453f-9e8b-e80342413228

Additional sponsorship requirements

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-offshore/additional-sponsorship-requirements

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-offshore/additional-sponsorship-requirements

/supporting/Pages/Family/300-309-820-additional-sponsorship-requirements.aspx

6a9d6688-c089-4453-96fa-8e1712ea124a

Family violence and your visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-offshore/family-violence-and-your-visa

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-offshore/family-violence-and-your-visa

f164f9b2-c434-4f74-ac8b-f701660db58b

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-offshore/measures-for-the-protection-of-children

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-offshore/measures-for-the-protection-of-children

7fdbc31a-e2dd-4360-b29b-02247ee850d0

Partner (Migrant) visa (subclass 100)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-offshore/migrant-100

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-offshore/migrant-100

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/100-partner-migrant.aspx

e64ab8de-a89f-4eb2-b25d-109662ee116e

Partner (Provisional) visa (subclass 309)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-offshore/provisional-309

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-offshore/provisional-309

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/309-partner-offshore.aspx

035df1a1-bb04-4814-865b-e804f2fce5d2

Partner visa (subclasses 820/801)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/partner-onshore-landing.aspx

511de426-6ddb-4139-8968-7cebc334cf11

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore/additional-sponsorship-requirements

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore/additional-sponsorship-requirements

8d98d797-fc6e-47d1-bf6e-653e6170b6c5

Domestic and family violence and your visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa

/supporting/Pages/Family/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa.aspx

1cf2f4dd-9a2b-42b4-bae0-9df5f3aa07c3

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/overview

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/overview

50119074-ac03-4811-b1df-1d1989af3fc3

Where to get help

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/where-to-get-help

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/where-to-get-help

/supporting/Pages/Family/domestic-family-violence-where-to-get-help.aspx

ea5fa25f-cdd2-4526-96d4-df969cda636a

How we can help you

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/how-we-can-help-you

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/how-we-can-help-you

/supporting/Pages/Family/domestic-family-violence-how-we-can-help-you.aspx

2cf1afcd-c54f-447a-bed6-ad0fd7616685

For service providers

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/for-service-providers

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/for-service-providers

a0176b9d-c804-435a-bf06-9d1104c8cc05

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore/family-violence-and-your-visa

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore/family-violence-and-your-visa

/redirect-subsite/Pages/domestic-violence-redirect.aspx

40415278-1d50-43a4-8b3f-1cc710f3d2a5

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore/measures-for-the-protection-of-children

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore/measures-for-the-protection-of-children

b78ae90d-5533-47dd-afc2-972c61ed7f70

Partner (Permanent) visa (subclass 801)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore/permanent-801

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore/permanent-801

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/801-partner-permanent.aspx

baca5c78-8f3e-4aed-9586-09bd5ef2378b

Partner (Temporary) visa (subclass 820)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore/temporary-820

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/partner-onshore/temporary-820

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/820-partner-temporary.aspx

61125a97-3f7b-4f5f-a1d6-2f5dfb905af1

Permanent Residence (Skilled Regional) visa (subclass 191)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-191

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-191

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/191-permanent-residence-skilled-regional-landing.aspx

d4e9fd4d-9f61-4bca-a897-8608816f30de

Hong Kong stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-191/hong-kong

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-191/hong-kong

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/191-hong-kong.aspx

db2fe60e-9e19-4f6c-8a9c-e219a3b0c115

Regional provisional stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-191/regional-provisional

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-191/regional-provisional

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/191-regional-provisional-stream.aspx

bc0ca43d-72b9-4bad-b639-df6f41d7bbed

Prospective marriage visa(subclass 300)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/prospective-marriage-300

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/prospective-marriage-300

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/300-prospective-marriage.aspx

ab54fc97-1c2f-4f0a-acfa-4bf25fee5d86

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/prospective-marriage-300/additional-sponsorship-requirements

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/prospective-marriage-300/additional-sponsorship-requirements

f5fb7ceb-aca4-4957-acf6-df946c705731

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/prospective-marriage-300/family-violence-and-your-visa

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/prospective-marriage-300/family-violence-and-your-visa

4102e759-4191-40b8-babe-ab45d3a84d34

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/prospective-marriage-300/measures-for-the-protection-of-children

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/prospective-marriage-300/measures-for-the-protection-of-children

2be49a77-a44e-4070-9f3d-0af97f559e34

Protection visa (subclass 866)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/protection-866

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/protection-866

/Visa-subsite/Pages/refugee-and-humanitarian/866-protection-visa.aspx

b98f6852-e2bb-4104-8af0-4783b6e97f77

Australia's protection obligations

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/protection-866/australias-protection-obligations

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/protection-866/australias-protection-obligations

/refugee-and-humanitarian/Pages/Ref-and-hum-program/australia-protection-obligations.aspx

0ce143af-7457-431a-ad05-edd8ffb3477c

IAAAS

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/protection-866/iaaas

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/protection-866/iaaas

/supporting/Pages/Refugee-humanitarian/iaaas.aspx

aa9ae62c-36c7-4eaa-b5af-306b5890f452

Identity requirements

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/protection-866/identity-requirements

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/protection-866/identity-requirements

/supporting/Pages/Refugee-humanitarian/identity-requirements-for-pv-applicants.aspx

2f7116f1-d440-4038-9aed-1f54e76c0be8

PPV decision reviewed

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/protection-866/ppv-decision-reviewed

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/protection-866/ppv-decision-reviewed

/supporting/Pages/Refugee-humanitarian/866-ppv-decision-reviewed.aspx

d7cc477f-5317-4a04-96c4-6d4e081d46e2

Protection visa applicant stories

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/protection-866/protection-visa-applicant-stories

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/protection-866/protection-visa-applicant-stories

71105184-0f29-4128-b9c7-0ec3101a0177

Protection visa information guide

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/protection-866/what-you-need-to-know-866-visa

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/protection-866/what-you-need-to-know-866-visa

/protection-visa-subsite/Pages/pv-wizard/pv-wizard-version2.aspx

5f31f966-4af4-47fb-b8ee-9d86f8f0f616

Protection visas are for asylum seekers

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/protection-866/genuine-asylum-seekers

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/protection-866/genuine-asylum-seekers

/protection-visa-subsite/Pages/protection-visas-are-for-genuine-asylum-seekers.aspx

79fc5ccf-f62d-4bfe-98a4-54c219f7e621

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/protection-866/genuine-asylum-seekers/pv-applicant-stories

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/protection-866/genuine-asylum-seekers/pv-applicant-stories

/protection-visa-subsite/Pages/pv-applicant-stories.aspx

d7942c2f-3e81-471b-bd5a-9dda939f0ee8

Resources (English and translated)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/protection-866/genuine-asylum-seekers/translated-resources

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/protection-866/genuine-asylum-seekers/translated-resources

/protection-visa-subsite/Pages/translated-resources.aspx

694877cb-3170-4bc1-a772-9937d5cfe93d

Refugee visa (subclass 200)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/refugee-200

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/refugee-200

/Visa-subsite/Pages/refugee-and-humanitarian/200-refugee-visa.aspx

3e1d8d20-f66b-43f6-872f-e33a6f6c4bb5

Regional Sponsor Migration Scheme (subclass 187)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/regional-sponsor-migration-scheme-187

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/regional-sponsor-migration-scheme-187

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/187-regional-sponsor-migration-scheme.aspx

988fa6a5-d62e-4cda-af60-e5135d2d791f

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/regional-sponsor-migration-scheme-187/direct-entry-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/regional-sponsor-migration-scheme-187/direct-entry-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/187-direct-entry-stream.aspx

581a7f14-f045-4ba2-b4e3-c2d3b31b469b

Regional Certifying Bodies

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/regional-sponsor-migration-scheme-187/regional-certifying-bodies

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/regional-sponsor-migration-scheme-187/regional-certifying-bodies

/supporting/Pages/Work/187-regional-certifying-bodies.aspx

125195e2-a2c2-4d3d-87d0-0b144b06d517

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/regional-sponsor-migration-scheme-187/regional-postcodes

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/regional-sponsor-migration-scheme-187/regional-postcodes

287c3baf-dd15-4bbf-9dd0-df9db642002c

Salary requirements

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/regional-sponsor-migration-scheme-187/salary-requirements

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/regional-sponsor-migration-scheme-187/salary-requirements

/employer-subsite/Pages/salary-requirements.aspx

96a1f26d-d314-4f5d-9ddd-c7c14b099ed0

Temporary residence transistion stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/regional-sponsor-migration-scheme-187/temporary-residence-transistion-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/regional-sponsor-migration-scheme-187/temporary-residence-transistion-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/187-temporary-residence-stream.aspx

17040697-ed97-4795-8863-38bca70bb817

Remaining Relative visa (subclass 115)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/remaining-relative-115

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/remaining-relative-115

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/115-remaining-relative.aspx

1a8cad44-faf5-4c4b-8ba6-c7582ad67376

Remaining Relative visa (subclass 835)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/remaining-relative-835

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/remaining-relative-835

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/835-remaining-relative-visa.aspx

54171767-c7ae-46ef-a9b8-504e219c5aac

Repealed Visas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas

abd37f8d-bfb3-4fa6-9ede-affefd43b120

Business (Short Stay) visa (subclass 456)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/business-short-stay-visa-subclass-456

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/business-short-stay-visa-subclass-456

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/456-business-short-stay.aspx

3ed56c41-85b7-421c-a792-6e47cc0b0020

Business Owner (subclass 890) visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/business-owner-subclass-890-visa

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/business-owner-subclass-890-visa

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/business-owner-subclass-890-visa.aspx

0ea8d195-0de7-4a5a-a2a8-2605ff1baee6

Business Skills (provisional) visas (subclasses 160-165)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/business-skills-provisional-visas-subclasses-160-165

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/business-skills-provisional-visas-subclasses-160-165

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/160-business-skills-provisional.aspx

8ed0d484-f830-4a22-8f66-47b8935ca226

Confirmatory (Residence) visa (subclass 808)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/confirmatory-residence-subclass-808

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/confirmatory-residence-subclass-808

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/confirmatory-residence-subclass-808.aspx

63dfb615-147c-4faf-a264-64b58d228f0b

Domestic Worker (Temporary Diplomatic Consular visa)(Subclass 426)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/domestic-worker-temporary-diplomatic-consular-426

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/domestic-worker-temporary-diplomatic-consular-426

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/426-domestic-worker-temporary-diplomatic-and-consular-visa.aspx

8eb5a98e-4692-4fc0-be43-a24f7f63fcb6

Domestic Worker (Temporary Executive visa) (Subclass 427)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/domestic-worker-(temporary-executive-visa)-(subclass-427)

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/domestic-worker-(temporary-executive-visa)-(subclass-427)

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/427-domestic-worker-temporary-executive-visa.aspx

210039de-d465-422d-b1d1-e7e0b6961959

Electronic Travel Authority (Business Entrant) (subclass 956 and 977)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/electronic-travel-authority-business-entrant-subclass-956-and-977

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/electronic-travel-authority-business-entrant-subclass-956-and-977

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/956-977-electronic-travel-authority-business-entrant.aspx

8dfbcd4a-09c6-46ef-a7a3-0c7444646f8b

Electronic Travel Authority (Visitor) (subclass 976)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/electronic-travel-authority-visitor-subclass-976

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/electronic-travel-authority-visitor-subclass-976

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/976-electronic-travel-authority.aspx

028ac9fc-0a29-4534-adf9-9e1b08fcc644

Employer Nomination Scheme visa (subclasses 121 and 856)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/employer-nomination-scheme-121

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/employer-nomination-scheme-121

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/121-employer-nomination.aspx

c034a066-d665-42ca-8b4f-608db504c412

Established Business in Australia visa (subclass 845)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/established-business-in-australia-visa-subclass-845

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/established-business-in-australia-visa-subclass-845

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/845-established-business-in-australia.aspx

b304ac01-48ea-4a28-a585-762bf91cae6b

Exchange visa (subclass 411)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/exchange-visa-subclass-411

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/exchange-visa-subclass-411

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/411-Exchange-visa.aspx

52a2d340-98b4-47d0-8324-6accc38b99fe

Foreign Affairs or Defence Sector visa (subclass 576)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/foreign-affairs-or-defence-sector-visa-subclass-576

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/foreign-affairs-or-defence-sector-visa-subclass-576

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/576-foreign-affairs-or-defence.aspx

e070d145-ec30-480d-b0de-3c695b44f51f

Foreign Government Agency visa (subclass 415)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/foreign-government-agency-visa-subclass-415

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/foreign-government-agency-visa-subclass-415

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/415-foreign-government-agency.aspx

220938a9-da53-4a1a-8caf-f6276f10265a

Government Agreement visa (subclass 406)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/government-agreement-visa-subclass-406

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/government-agreement-visa-subclass-406

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/406-Government-Agreement-visa.aspx

25561e3b-03b6-440a-8972-00e153338acc

Guardian visa (subclass 580)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/guardian-visa-subclass-580

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/guardian-visa-subclass-580

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/580-guardian.aspx

a53c7a4b-f7ba-4d71-be5d-e603cc9e7bd0

Higher Education Sector visa (subclass 573)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/higher-education-sector-573

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/higher-education-sector-573

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/573-higher-education-sector.aspx

1285772c-e87b-4695-9b31-0754881410bc

Independent ELICOS Sector visa (subclass 570)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/independent-elicos-sector-570

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/independent-elicos-sector-570

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/570-independent-elicos-sector.aspx

732bce69-7731-4d94-988f-f1f6275fd58a

Investor (subclass 891) visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/investor-subclass-891-visa

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/investor-subclass-891-visa

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/investor-subclass-891-visa.aspx

ebab1aaf-824f-4f27-ad34-0bedfc6620ff

Investor Retirement visa (subclass 405)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/investor-retirement-visa-subclass-405

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/investor-retirement-visa-subclass-405

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/405-investor-retirement-visa.aspx

7d658fdb-bfb2-4fa0-94d5-f0f0d81361f0

Labour Agreement visa (subclass 120)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/labour-agreement-visa-(subclass-120)

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/labour-agreement-visa-(subclass-120)

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/120-labour-agreement-visa.aspx

ce2b3b4e-fe6f-443b-9e8d-e829ae45652d

Labour Agreement visa (subclass 855)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/labour-agreement-visa-subclass-855

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/labour-agreement-visa-subclass-855

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/855-labour-Agreement-visa.aspx

3f29773b-cdb8-44ea-a197-29b58593dc46

Media Film Staff visa (Subclass 423)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/media-film-staff-423

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/media-film-staff-423

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/423-media-and-film-staff.aspx

6035f7b1-4ec3-4a6a-8756-e5341a6eee5d

Medical Practitioner visa (subclass 422)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/medical-practitioner-visa-subclass-422

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/medical-practitioner-visa-subclass-422

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/422-medical-practitioner.aspx

d35c5f3b-306a-44ea-bc01-c8dbeb346176

Medical Treatment (Short Stay) visa (subclass 675)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/medical-treatment-short-stay-visa-subclass-675

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/medical-treatment-short-stay-visa-subclass-675

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/675-medical-treatment-short-stay.aspx

ce3ef6f7-ac30-4b29-aa0d-531068cf8799

Medical Treatment Long Stay Visa (subclass 685)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/medical-treatment-long-stay-visa-subclass-685

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/medical-treatment-long-stay-visa-subclass-685

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/685-medical-treatment-long-stay.aspx

d8e8d9d8-df87-4238-bdc5-1c741503a75c

Non Award Sector visa (subclass 575)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/non-award-sector-575

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/non-award-sector-575

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/575-non-award-sector.aspx

926278c7-0b38-48c1-9bde-1a60e296a787

Pacific Labour Scheme stream (subclass 403)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/pacific-labour-scheme

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/pacific-labour-scheme

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/pacific-labour-scheme-stream.aspx

1938690e-9bf8-4911-b247-bdef74c2e2b9

Postgraduate Research Sector visa (subclass 574)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/postgraduate-research-sector-574

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/postgraduate-research-sector-574

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/574-postgraduate-research-sector.aspx

17ed1637-81f4-4e0b-ac6c-56b9db609db0

Regional Sponsored Migration Scheme (subclasses 119 and 857)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/regional-sponsored-migration-scheme-(subclasses-119-and-857)

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/regional-sponsored-migration-scheme-(subclasses-119-and-857)

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/119-regional-sponsor-migration-scheme.aspx

49734e40-0627-421c-b334-ec554088b953

Religious Worker visa (subclass 428)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/religious-worker-visa-subclass-428

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/religious-worker-visa-subclass-428

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/428-Religious-Worker-visa.aspx

9137e97d-174e-470a-ae44-b9776e9514a3

Retirement visa (subclass 410)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/subclass-410

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/subclass-410

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/410-retirement-visa.aspx

7cb5d98c-b8f3-4bc6-b1dc-d2065c927ff5

Schools Sector visa (subclass 571)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/schools-sector-571

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/schools-sector-571

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/571-schools-sector.aspx

f4744f31-d9ab-42f8-86ad-73b45b480215

Seasonal Worker Program stream (subclass 403)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/seasonal-worker-program

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/seasonal-worker-program

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/seasonal-worker-program-stream.aspx

7c9122a0-0d6f-47db-bb27-ed7167351fce

Skilled — Designated Area Sponsored visa (subclass 496)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/skilled-designated-area-sponsored-visa-subclass-496

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/skilled-designated-area-sponsored-visa-subclass-496

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/496-designated-area-sponsored-visa.aspx

2563c45e-446d-4955-bfda-bac4148342f2

Skilled — Independent Regional (Provisional) visa (subclass 495)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/skilled-independent-regional-provisional-visa-subclass-495

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/skilled-independent-regional-provisional-visa-subclass-495

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/495-skilled-independent-regional-provisional.aspx

41d0e7eb-4614-4a7e-9d4d-907f6d251542

Skilled — Independent visa (subclass 885)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/skilled-independent-visa-(subclass-885)

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/skilled-independent-visa-(subclass-885)

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/885-skilled-independent-visa.aspx

9263418e-508d-413b-b1c6-af4917a603c1

Skilled – Regional Sponsored visa (subclass 475)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/skilled-regional-sponsored-visa-subclass-475

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/skilled-regional-sponsored-visa-subclass-475

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/475-skilled-regional-sponsored.aspx

093ba842-2a3a-4fa0-9053-a28bb6b3e21d

Skilled — Regional Sponsored visa (subclass 487)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/skilled-regional-sponsored-visa-subclass-487

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/skilled-regional-sponsored-visa-subclass-487

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/487-skilled-regional-sponsored.aspx

afd759c2-9f44-4090-a9d2-2a1608404dce

Skilled — Sponsored visa (subclass 886)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/skilled-sponsored-visa-subclass-886

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/skilled-sponsored-visa-subclass-886

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/886-sponsored-visa.aspx

1e868752-cb8d-421c-8565-df19f658cbf0

Skilled independent (subclass 175)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/skilled-independent-subclass-175

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/skilled-independent-subclass-175

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/175-skilled-independent.aspx

5e3d7922-bb61-4c07-8d55-32517ee4f374

Skilled-Recognised Graduate visa (subclass 476)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/skilled-recognised-graduate-visa-subclass-476

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/skilled-recognised-graduate-visa-subclass-476

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/476-skilled-recognised-graduate.aspx

27389a3c-0641-4478-9668-3449def0c492

Skilled-Sponsored visa (subclass 176)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/skilled-sponsored-visa-subclass-176

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/skilled-sponsored-visa-subclass-176

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/176-skilled-sponsored.aspx

6975af85-069e-4cfb-bbc6-5c91171f13a3

Special Program visa (subclass 416)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/special-program-visa-subclass-416

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/special-program-visa-subclass-416

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/416-Special-Program-visa.aspx

42f207f6-b436-47c5-88e2-bac41801b29a

Sport visa (subclass 421)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/sport-visa-subclass-421

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/sport-visa-subclass-421

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/421-sport-visa.aspx

15cf0ce0-6057-4c57-88ad-2122708daab8

State or Territory Sponsored Business Owner (subclass 892) visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/state-or-territory-sponsored-business-owner-subclass-892-visa

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/state-or-territory-sponsored-business-owner-subclass-892-visa

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/state-or-territory-sponsored-business-owner-subclass-892-visa.aspx

71b81868-35fe-4094-91cd-9449b44be496

State or Territory Sponsored Investor (subclass 893) visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/state-or-territory-sponsored-investor-subclass-893-visa

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/state-or-territory-sponsored-investor-subclass-893-visa

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/state-or-territory-sponsored-investor-subclass-893-visa.aspx

967bbff7-0fb0-4a6c-b7a6-8cda27ef869a

State/Territory Sponsored Regional Established Business in Australia visa (subclass 846)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/state-territory-sponsored-regional-established-business-in-australia-visa-subclass-846

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/state-territory-sponsored-regional-established-business-in-australia-visa-subclass-846

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/846-State-or-Territory-Sponsored-Regional-Established-Business.aspx

f6b1dc19-8db1-4e0c-8d7f-5ff7ed0b3987

Superyacht Crew visa (subclass 488)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/superyacht-crew-visa-488

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/superyacht-crew-visa-488

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/488-superyacht-crew-visa.aspx

0742c706-5139-480e-be6d-66968ee0c057

Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408) - Australian Government endorsed events (COVID-19 Pandemic event)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/covid-19-pandemic-event-subclass-408

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/covid-19-pandemic-event-subclass-408

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/australian-government-endorsed-events-covid-19-pandemic-event-subclass-408.aspx

84743b1d-cd6f-4ec4-920d-8a543b232e63

Temporary Graduate (Replacement stream) visa (subclass 485)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/temporary-graduate-replacement-stream-visa-subclass-485

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/temporary-graduate-replacement-stream-visa-subclass-485

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/485-temporary-graduate-replacement-stream.aspx

cae4ca54-e0fc-4a3f-b9f3-09c9deb9a63a

Temporary Skill Shortage (Labour agreement) visa (subclass 482)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/temporary-skill-shortage-labour-agreement-visa-subclass-482

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/temporary-skill-shortage-labour-agreement-visa-subclass-482

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/labour-stream-482-repealed.aspx

7d4dc75b-a972-4262-891b-03c0482e2438

Temporary Skill Shortage (Medium-term) visa (subclass 482)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/temporary-skill-shortage-medium-term-visa-subclass-482

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/temporary-skill-shortage-medium-term-visa-subclass-482

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/medium-term-stream-482-repealed.aspx

6ea050aa-20fb-4b9f-a2f1-c2d81f0006a1

Temporary Skill Shortage (Short-term) visa (subclass 482)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/temporary-skill-shortage-short-term-visa-subclass-482

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/temporary-skill-shortage-short-term-visa-subclass-482

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/short-term-stream-482-repealed.aspx

f6be2e00-b5fd-4e86-b129-ffa75c800571

Temporary Work (Entertainment) visa (subclass 420)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/temporary-work-entertainment-visa-subclass-420

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/temporary-work-entertainment-visa-subclass-420

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/420-entertainment-visa.aspx

3759bd92-8bf9-4ef5-ad5b-961ad69ebaad

Temporary Work (Long stay Activity) visa (sublass 401)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/temporary-work-(long-stay-activity)-visa-(sublass-401)

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/temporary-work-(long-stay-activity)-visa-(sublass-401)

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/401-temporary-work-long-stay.aspx

bdeadd8c-ea01-4b98-ae31-3bc98763710b

Temporary Work (Skilled) visa (subclass 457)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/temporary-work-skilled-457

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/temporary-work-skilled-457

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/457-temporary-work.aspx

a63488ea-b0fd-4629-84be-c1fce5b57e91

Tourist visa (subclass 676)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/tourist-visa-676

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/tourist-visa-676

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/676-tourist-visa.aspx

a223a084-90df-47a4-bc14-f4bc61c0a6c2

Training and Research visa (subclass 402)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/training-and-research-visa-subclass-402

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/training-and-research-visa-subclass-402

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/402-training-and-research.aspx

8bcfb96b-69a9-4531-bcb8-cd9669c1a4a4

Visting Academic visa (subclass 419)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/visting-academic-visa-subclass-419

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/visting-academic-visa-subclass-419

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/419-visiting-academic-visa.aspx

86b82fcf-928d-4f89-aef5-bcceeaa8b61a

Vocational Education and Training Sector visa (Subclass 572)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/vocational-education-and-training-sector-572

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/repealed-visas/vocational-education-and-training-sector-572

/Visa-subsite/Pages/repealed-visas/572-vocational-education-and-training-sector.aspx

b02110f9-5d28-4586-81be-d03a0f9d7ac4

Resident Return Visa (subclass 155/157)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/resident-return-visa-155-157

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/resident-return-visa-155-157

/Visa-subsite/Pages/other-visas/155-157-resident-return.aspx

c179115b-b4b8-4147-bec5-96c0b57bba3f

Resolution of Status (subclass 851)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/resolution-of-status-851

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/resolution-of-status-851

/Visa-subsite/Pages/other-visas/851-RoS.aspx

30d04f9d-2d4d-4177-a753-16bb4c39238e

Safe Haven Enterprise visa (subclass 790)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790

/Visa-subsite/Pages/refugee-and-humanitarian/790-shev.aspx

55cb30f2-9ba3-461a-ad76-d9d46983124f

Applying for a subsequent TPV or SHEV

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev

/supporting/Pages/tpv-shev-in-language/overview.aspx

fb252db3-83c3-4531-8d6f-3b106f80430e

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/overview

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/overview

1af6f6f2-8f05-46ae-b669-1e87eef6e629

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/what-you-need-to-do

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/what-you-need-to-do

/supporting/Pages/tpv-shev-in-language/what-you-need-to-do.aspx

d67b27d8-58ed-42c2-96d4-bc607d8f9e5a

How to apply

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/how-to-apply

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/how-to-apply

/supporting/Pages/tpv-shev-in-language/how-to-apply.aspx

62ef36dc-6f57-4ca2-8804-b1c7f0b06d67

Information in your language

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/information-in-your-language

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/information-in-your-language

/supporting/Pages/tpv-shev-in-language/information-in-your-language.aspx

9ff05628-1b2f-4dd0-a04c-1b4c3a995b5a

Information for TPV and SHEV holders

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/information-for-tpv-and-shev-holders

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/information-for-tpv-and-shev-holders

/supporting/Pages/tpv-shev-in-language/Information-for-TPV-and-SHEV-holders.aspx

9869d2cf-a0ad-487f-b633-3601565b98cb

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/identity-requirements

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/identity-requirements

41ed1934-c045-49c9-9550-c165cd9ac326

Safe Haven Enterprise visa (SHEV) regional area

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/safe-haven-enterprise-visa-regional-area

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/safe-haven-enterprise-visa-regional-area

/supporting/Pages/Refugee-humanitarian/safe-haven-enterprise-visa-regional-area.aspx

3b62f9ba-8848-4fd4-98c9-07593567b882

Safe Haven Enterprise visa pathway

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/safe-haven-enterprise-visa-pathway

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/safe-haven-enterprise-visa-pathway

/supporting/Pages/Refugee-humanitarian/safe-haven-enterprise-visa-pathway.aspx

8263e258-eaa6-4e1d-96dc-88e5f7e2cd66

SHEV pathway

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/shev-pathway

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/shev-pathway

/supporting/Pages/Refugee-humanitarian/790-shev-pathway/overview.aspx

42d8af90-4e78-4df6-a13d-a8c206a01405

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/shev-pathway/overview

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/shev-pathway/overview

1f5b1743-4769-4e37-b5e9-7e8b921193d8

About the pathway

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/shev-pathway/about-the-pathway

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/shev-pathway/about-the-pathway

/supporting/Pages/Refugee-humanitarian/790-shev-pathway/about-pathway.aspx

9a1c8c69-8fbd-4711-b193-ebd8713fb466

Requirements

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/shev-pathway/requirements

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/shev-pathway/requirements

/supporting/Pages/Refugee-humanitarian/790-shev-pathway/requirements.aspx

1356a515-15d5-4561-a382-c1b4c20c3b4a

List of visas under this pathway

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/shev-pathway/list-of-visas

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/shev-pathway/list-of-visas

/supporting/Pages/Refugee-humanitarian/790-shev-pathway/list-of-visas.aspx

65d6a9b0-2de3-41d2-bd75-d13b4a5439b2

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/shev-pathway/step-by-step

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/safe-haven-enterprise-790/shev-pathway/step-by-step

/supporting/Pages/Refugee-humanitarian/790-shev-pathway/Step-by-step.aspx

0b741b59-3153-406d-ad31-fc17d60f1b82

Skilled Employer Sponsored Regional (provisional) (subclass 494)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-employer-sponsored-regional-494

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-employer-sponsored-regional-494

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/494-skilled-employer-regional-landing.aspx

81226d22-4eac-4b76-ba02-d432237500de

Employer sponsored stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-employer-sponsored-regional-494/employer-sponsored-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-employer-sponsored-regional-494/employer-sponsored-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/494-employer-sponsored.aspx

8d371846-700a-4010-bb9c-d1010a1e06ab

Labour Agreement stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-employer-sponsored-regional-494/labour-agreement-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-employer-sponsored-regional-494/labour-agreement-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/494-labour-areement.aspx

057ccd67-0024-4418-850b-7e26a99d8544

Regional certifying bodies

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-employer-sponsored-regional-494/regional-certifying-bodies

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-employer-sponsored-regional-494/regional-certifying-bodies

/supporting/Pages/Work/494-regional-certifying-bodies.aspx

f4bd2faf-57ae-47a0-9384-086667e86375

Subsequent entrant

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-employer-sponsored-regional-494/subsequent-entrant

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-employer-sponsored-regional-494/subsequent-entrant

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/494-subsequent-entrant.aspx

52f38923-b034-48cb-ba83-cdcfef797bdf

Skilled Independent visa (subclass 189)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-independent-189

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-independent-189

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/189-skilled-independent-landing.aspx

1c2a0c46-aa5a-4d04-b0bb-9425f92fb9db

Australian study requirements

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-independent-189/australian-study-requirement

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-independent-189/australian-study-requirement

/supporting/Pages/Student/australian-study-requirement.aspx

b2ce08d5-e43a-4ffd-937a-2633dd675e2e

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-independent-189/points-table

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-independent-189/points-table

/supporting/Pages/Work/189-points-table.aspx

a2466655-aaef-43a2-af0b-156cc1708fc5

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-independent-189/regional-postcodes

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-independent-189/regional-postcodes

/supporting/Pages/Work/regional-postcodes.aspx

cb907503-5f1c-4b47-9fea-7c642bdd1bef

Skilled Independent (subclass 189) (New Zealand)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-independent-189/new-zealand

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-independent-189/new-zealand

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/189-new-zealand-stream.aspx

f9f9a726-eaa8-429f-998b-4801c99a9b67

Skilled Independent visa (subclass 189) (Hong Kong)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-independent-189/hong-kong

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-independent-189/hong-kong

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/189-hong-kong-stream.aspx

b131d332-a398-4259-b4cc-110d320c258b

Skilled Independent visa (subclass 189) (Points-tested)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-independent-189/points-tested

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-independent-189/points-tested

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/189-skilled-independent-points-tested.aspx

d66e6c32-a006-4407-9beb-dc516fa4e6af

Skilled Nominated visa (subclass 190)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-nominated-190

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-nominated-190

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/190-skilled-nominated-visa.aspx

23f5a14a-7811-4c6a-95b2-ed793269536f

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-nominated-190/australian-study-requirement

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-nominated-190/australian-study-requirement

e347cc53-6e18-4886-af04-96b6bc806ce6

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-nominated-190/points-table

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-nominated-190/points-table

/supporting/Pages/Work/190-points-table.aspx

20aa474a-c8ca-4fab-80f6-5eca43c34f90

Regional post codes

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-nominated-190/regional-post-codes

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-nominated-190/regional-post-codes

1596db19-363b-4200-8019-2fe611786bad

Skilled Recognised Graduate visa (subclass 476)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-recognition-graduate-476

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-recognition-graduate-476

/redirect-subsite/Pages/476-skilled-recognised-graduate-visa-redirect.aspx

419b5189-0f83-46d6-ac3d-2f4d254380be

Skilled Regional (provisional) visa (subclass 489)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-provisional-489

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-provisional-489

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/489-skilled-regional-sponsored.aspx

03de42d0-3bff-42ac-8910-718a93dcb3bc

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-provisional-489/australian-study-requirements

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-provisional-489/australian-study-requirements

4c77a0e7-2860-438f-8a18-b3cfd38cccd2

Designated areas of Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-provisional-489/designated-areas-of-australia

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-provisional-489/designated-areas-of-australia

/supporting/Pages/Work/489-designated-areas-australia.aspx

4aa09380-2bec-419f-be14-8f16af783ebb

Extended stay pathway

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-provisional-489/extended-stay-pathway

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-provisional-489/extended-stay-pathway

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/489-extended-stay-pathway.aspx

1e453631-15ef-4b8a-b82b-dc1e9ae93405

Invited pathway

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-provisional-489/invited-pathway

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-provisional-489/invited-pathway

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/489-invited-pathway.aspx

3f3bc175-92f3-42ed-980b-6765e72e96fc

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-provisional-489/points-table

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-provisional-489/points-table

/supporting/Pages/Work/489-points-table.aspx

130589d7-3963-4949-8dc0-9be5f1bc827b

Regional and low population growth metropolitan areas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-provisional-489/regional-and-low-population-growth-metropolitan-areas

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-provisional-489/regional-and-low-population-growth-metropolitan-areas

/supporting/Pages/Work/489-regional-and-low-population-growth.aspx

b21b1090-7ce9-4fec-97e5-b96a9f6f7aef

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-provisional-489/regional-postcodes

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-provisional-489/regional-postcodes

8438054b-54ca-42fd-8c0a-1855d9fa77f4

Subsequent entry pathway

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-provisional-489/subsequent-entry-pathway

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-provisional-489/subsequent-entry-pathway

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/489-subsequent-entry-pathway.aspx

eca6fd31-08ed-478e-8fe5-7f92277805c0

Skilled Regional visa (subclass 887)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-887

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-887

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/887-skilled-regional.aspx

9f40d6be-9706-473c-9f52-5a0ce0455bde

Designated area of Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-887/designated-area-of-australia

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-887/designated-area-of-australia

de54215b-ef9d-459c-8b7b-c6f950351de0

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-887/regional-postcodes

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-regional-887/regional-postcodes

1f8ddc59-a592-4749-8ba5-78280b1db99c

Skilled Work Regional (provisional) visa (subclass 491)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-work-regional-provisional-491

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-work-regional-provisional-491

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/491-landing.aspx

1e516cb3-e893-4dfb-b044-9b2d62232bd6

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-work-regional-provisional-491/points-table

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-work-regional-provisional-491/points-table

/supporting/Pages/Work/491-points-table.aspx

abfec2e8-dc02-4476-bcfa-cf6e7d13b590

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-work-regional-provisional-491/application

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-work-regional-provisional-491/application

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/491-skilled-work-regional.aspx

bdf5e5f8-9114-426f-bec7-f5aa25249258

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-work-regional-provisional-491/subsequent-entrant

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skilled-work-regional-provisional-491/subsequent-entrant

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/491-subsequent-entry.aspx

24be3cc1-cb16-4f86-bc89-844e021e2462

Skills in Demand visa (subclass 482)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skills-in-demand-visa-subclass-482

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skills-in-demand-visa-subclass-482

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/skills-in-demand-482-landing.aspx

edea4cdc-1ceb-4b22-b33f-758f62cb2438

Change in situation

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skills-in-demand-visa-subclass-482/change-in-situation

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skills-in-demand-visa-subclass-482/change-in-situation

/supporting/Pages/Work/482-change-in-situation.aspx

7c786d48-d16d-4f3d-9a63-f9d1435c77ae

Core skills stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skills-in-demand-visa-subclass-482/core-skills-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skills-in-demand-visa-subclass-482/core-skills-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/482-core-skills-stream.aspx

f762cf89-5847-4281-bebd-3f0cbd2f7185

Executive or Senior Manager occupations for the purposes of International Trade Obligations

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skills-in-demand-visa-subclass-482/executive-or-senior-manager-occupations-for-the-purposes-of-international-trade-obligations

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skills-in-demand-visa-subclass-482/executive-or-senior-manager-occupations-for-the-purposes-of-international-trade-obligations

/supporting/Pages/Work/executive-senior-manager-occupations-for-the-purposes-of-ito.aspx

e04fda98-6378-44ec-805e-aadb8e557df4

Exempt occupations

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skills-in-demand-visa-subclass-482/exempt-occupations

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skills-in-demand-visa-subclass-482/exempt-occupations

/supporting/Pages/Work/482-exempt-occupations.aspx

42d864e9-72ce-4a40-816e-0c5a21bbdc5b

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skills-in-demand-visa-subclass-482/labour-agreement-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skills-in-demand-visa-subclass-482/labour-agreement-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/sid-labour-agreement-stream.aspx

0b040c90-b546-44d6-a990-6a3dc4b90451

Specialist skills stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skills-in-demand-visa-subclass-482/specialist-skills-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skills-in-demand-visa-subclass-482/specialist-skills-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/specialist-skills-stream.aspx

4d23006f-09a3-4e5f-be5b-8dc66cf8b519

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skills-in-demand-visa-subclass-482/subsequent-entrant

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skills-in-demand-visa-subclass-482/subsequent-entrant

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/sid-subsequent-entrant.aspx

60dfe2b9-b54d-4286-b253-f2dab8e862cb

Sufficient English

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skills-in-demand-visa-subclass-482/sufficient-english

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/skills-in-demand-visa-subclass-482/sufficient-english

/supporting/Pages/sufficient-english.aspx

4c772524-03fb-4a1e-9f6d-4ab29494721b

Special Category visa (subclass 444)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/special-category-visa-subclass-444

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/special-category-visa-subclass-444

/Visa-subsite/Pages/other-visas/444-special-category-visa.aspx

3032c534-e96a-4e48-9ae1-f55fac06deb1

Special purpose visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/special-purpose-visa

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/special-purpose-visa

/Visa-subsite/Pages/other-visas/Special-purpose-visa.aspx

0b05ec37-fc2a-494c-ac3e-de735ad08cb3

Sponsored Parent visa (temporary) (subclass 870)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/sponsored-parent-temporary-870

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/sponsored-parent-temporary-870

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/870-sponsored-parent-visa-temporary.aspx

022c32bc-d00f-45d9-b024-c220132e2c86

State or Territory Sponsored Business Owner visa (subclass 892)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/state-or-territory-sponsored-business-owner-892

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/state-or-territory-sponsored-business-owner-892

/redirect-subsite/Pages/state-or-territory-sponsored-business-owner-subclass-892-visa.aspx

aa9bce56-dbb0-40b7-9196-c65fd03d365f

State or Territory Sponsored Investor visa (subclass 893)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/state-or-territory-sponsored-investor-893

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/state-or-territory-sponsored-investor-893

/redirect-subsite/Pages/state-or-territory-sponsored-investor-subclass-893-visa.aspx

dd615bb5-3b89-4cc0-b7e9-e9222334f474

Student Guardian visa (subclass 590)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-590

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-590

/Visa-subsite/Pages/student/590-student-guardian.aspx

9c43dfd3-2424-497d-9ec6-6bb8b87dbd82

Student visa (subclass 500)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500

/Visa-subsite/Pages/student/500-student.aspx

0f186002-14b6-4855-bb32-b001d6462465

Disclaimer for Document checklist

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/disclaimer-for-document-checklist

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/disclaimer-for-document-checklist

/supporting/Pages/Student/disclaimer-document-checklist-tool.aspx

06d94bea-5173-4a86-ab35-42233bafba5d

Education provider default

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/education-provider-default

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/education-provider-default

/supporting/Pages/Student/education-provider-default.aspx

af226fa9-1372-4893-8422-d703f77412f5

Foundation Extended Program course list

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/foundation-extended-program-course-list

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/foundation-extended-program-course-list

/Visa-subsite/Pages/student/foundation-extended-program-course-list.aspx

716fa112-ad24-48fe-90a1-c8fe6d459b63

Foundation Standard Program course list

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/foundation-standard-program-course-list

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/foundation-standard-program-course-list

/Visa-subsite/Pages/student/foundation-standard-program-course-list.aspx

63a39d69-680e-41cd-8717-6d167bc17fc7

Genuine access to funds

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/genuine-access-to-funds

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/genuine-access-to-funds

/supporting/Pages/Student/Genuine-access-to-funds.aspx

488b9c5f-5a5c-4be5-acb0-dba134057209

Genuine Student requirement

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/genuine-student-requirement

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/genuine-student-requirement

/supporting/Pages/Student/genuine-temporary-entrant.aspx

b52afdf1-c3aa-4718-a90a-bfdbf2e471aa

Genuine temporary entrant

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/genuine-temporary-entrant

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/genuine-temporary-entrant

/redirect-subsite/Pages/genuine-student-requirement.aspx

70c1654b-0d53-4a93-a116-4ba667463e30

Length of stay

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/length-of-stay

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/length-of-stay

/supporting/Pages/Student/length-of-stay.aspx

50ab9a98-e22b-4894-9219-c7dd737a9f0c

Pathway Program course list

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/pathway-program-course-list

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/pathway-program-course-list

/Visa-subsite/Pages/student/pathway-program-course-list.aspx

c3dbcd6d-815f-4529-af1b-af2af0274c0d

Temporary relaxation of working hours for student visa holders

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/temporary-relaxation-of-working-hours-for-student-visa-holders

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/temporary-relaxation-of-working-hours-for-student-visa-holders

/supporting/Pages/Student/temporary-relaxation-of-working-hours-for-student-visa-holders.aspx

a464a71e-74f0-4f73-b028-d8262e42b55e

Welfare arrangements for students under 18

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/welfare-arrangements-students-under-18

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/student-500/welfare-arrangements-students-under-18

/supporting/Pages/Student/Welfare-arrangements-for-students-under-18.aspx

a7adc26f-19f0-40d6-96d7-ab09879ea352

Subclass Pacific Engagement Visa (192)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/subclass-pacific-engagement-visa-192

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/subclass-pacific-engagement-visa-192

d9fd8388-c63d-4aaa-923f-9b7c1c6a2caf

Subsequent temporary protection visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/subsequent-temporary-protection-visa

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/subsequent-temporary-protection-visa

e6a9d6c1-0b56-403a-b723-0d5ebd0c3a27

Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/408-temporary-activity-landing-page.aspx

79011f28-5af2-4b82-ac04-2d15f5a5b0e4

Australian Government endorsed events

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/australian-government-endorsed-events

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/australian-government-endorsed-events

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/408-Australian-government-endorsed-events.aspx

f050ef9d-65cc-4f7a-a768-16dffb714985

Australian Government Endorsed Events (COVID-19 Pandemic event)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/australian-government-endorsed-events-covid-19

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/australian-government-endorsed-events-covid-19

/redirect-subsite/Pages/COVID-19-Pandemic-event-redirect.aspx

de6c9ddb-2ef4-4ffb-9ae2-e7462a1e983e

Australian Government Endorsed Events (Workplace Justice Pilot)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/australian-government-endorsed-events-workplace-justice-pilot

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/australian-government-endorsed-events-workplace-justice-pilot

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/408-australian-government-endorsed-workplace-justice-pilot.aspx

b08dc961-c677-493b-893f-e78038ea47ac

Domestic work for executives

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/domestic-work-for-executives

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/domestic-work-for-executives

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/408-Domestic-work-for-executives.aspx

bcf2d214-7616-4ded-9fd8-3298a1d0a745

Entertainment activities

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/entertainment-activities

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/entertainment-activities

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/408-Entertainment-Activities.aspx

66786db5-f487-43bc-be8e-6dc7b72473cc

Exchange arrangements

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/exchange-arrangements

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/exchange-arrangements

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/408-Exchange-Arrangements.aspx

d8713014-5389-4667-bf4b-0772aeb25553

Invited for other social and cultural activity

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/invited-for-other-social-and-cultural-activity

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/invited-for-other-social-and-cultural-activity

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/408-Invited-for-other-social-and-cultural-activity.aspx

e614bfab-e65f-4569-b48f-cd51e249373f

Religious work

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/religious-work

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/religious-work

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/408-Religious-work.aspx

5d3f8a80-2bcc-46ef-b3c3-90c6e63d4127

Research activities

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/research-activities

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/research-activities

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/408-research-activities.aspx

509bab3c-cc29-440c-96e2-f916e5917d1d

Special program

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/special-program

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/special-program

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/408-special-program.aspx

18f1915f-8471-433c-9ac0-19367f664415

Sporting activities

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/sporting-activities

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/sporting-activities

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/408-sporting-activities.aspx

55474106-a633-4637-b0fd-6edf08ea2217

Superyacht crew

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/superyacht-crew

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-activity-408/superyacht-crew

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/408-superyacht-crew.aspx

cbc6e18d-06a3-4ef5-871b-7f73ae02b367

Temporary Graduate visa (subclass 485)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/485-temporary-graduate-visa-landing.aspx

53f6a405-b2f1-4d48-a6c4-003b9e0ce33a

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485/australian-study-requirement

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485/australian-study-requirement

763213fd-d8f7-466e-8b8b-00b88e4e3f67

Graduate work

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485/graduate-work

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485/graduate-work

/redirect-subsite/Pages/485-post-vocational-education-work-stream-redirect.aspx

75085078-71c2-46c2-8d84-acb86d876104

Meeting the Temporary Graduate visa (subclass 485) study requirement

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485/meeting-the-temporary-graduate-visa-subclass-485-study-requirement

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485/meeting-the-temporary-graduate-visa-subclass-485-study-requirement

/supporting/Pages/Student/meeting-temporary-graduate-visa-subclass-485-study-requirement.aspx

4b03ab0c-72f7-4942-8bc2-6193f722e8a2

Post-Higher Education Work

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485/post-higher-education-work

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485/post-higher-education-work

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/485-post-study-work.aspx

60cb4e51-3f3c-4a3a-86a9-6fb6e6ee1305

Post-study work

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485/post-study-work

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485/post-study-work

/redirect-subsite/Pages/485-post-higher-education-work-stream-redirect.aspx

a181c427-ce52-458e-8b66-0871b756a930

Post-Vocational Education Work

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485/post-vocational-education-work

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485/post-vocational-education-work

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/485-graduate-work.aspx

abadf180-0318-4543-aa75-ee0ae3d76bca

Proposed 1 July 2024 changes

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485/changes

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485/changes

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/changes-temporary-graduate-visa-program-proposed-01072024.aspx

0d333f47-04c1-40f9-818a-2aec16b5f5de

Replacement stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485/replacement-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485/replacement-stream

/redirect-subsite/Pages/485-temporary-graduate-replacement-stream-redirect.aspx

cf54a80a-6743-4da3-b02a-c19060fee5e4

Second Post-Higher Education Work

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485/second-post-higher-education-work

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485/second-post-higher-education-work

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/485-second-post-study-work-stream.aspx

c9ded055-0036-4777-ac8e-3785485bd683

Second Post-study work

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485/second-post-study-work

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-graduate-485/second-post-study-work

/redirect-subsite/Pages/485-second-post-higher-education-work-stream-redirect.aspx

0ff65867-1066-4b16-b3f7-04ef91d78956

Temporary Protection visa (subclass 785)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-protection-785

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-protection-785

/Visa-subsite/Pages/refugee-and-humanitarian/785-tpv.aspx

76901c95-4cf7-41c5-9c3d-69baec7416bf

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-protection-785/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-protection-785/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev

2f2639f3-18e5-4821-a511-9bff9a988285

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-protection-785/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/overview

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-protection-785/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/overview

704d27e3-10af-406a-8bd6-4bb3c56b47d2

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-protection-785/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/what-you-need-to-do

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-protection-785/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/what-you-need-to-do

7cd80c3e-ed5a-49d7-aa6d-883416a52f4b

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-protection-785/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/how-to-apply

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-protection-785/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/how-to-apply

05661ad6-13ce-4a45-9c5b-72efed66aca5

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-protection-785/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/information-in-your-language

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-protection-785/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/information-in-your-language

e7dd5648-008f-4286-831d-cb2a8410af7d

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-protection-785/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/information-for-tpv-and-shev-holders

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-protection-785/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/information-for-tpv-and-shev-holders

53f5f616-0695-4c6f-a244-9db5507167de

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-protection-785/identity-requirements

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-protection-785/identity-requirements

079aa4a8-7bc7-46af-9548-fb358223ebbc

Temporary Skill Shortage visa (subclass 482)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482

/redirect-subsite/Pages/Skills-in-Demand-subclass-482.aspx

32dba377-172f-49e8-b283-64201646bc3b

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482/change-in-situation

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482/change-in-situation

/redirect-subsite/Pages/change-in-situation.aspx

ac97bf1f-1f36-4507-88d5-0f99fa371121

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482/executive-or-senior-manager-occupations-for-the-purposes-of-international-trade-obligations

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482/executive-or-senior-manager-occupations-for-the-purposes-of-international-trade-obligations

/redirect-subsite/Pages/trade-obligations.aspx

526ed490-a397-4b7c-9663-d8a390e890b9

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482/exempt-occupations

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482/exempt-occupations

/redirect-subsite/Pages/exempt-occupation.aspx

e6617bda-b863-4209-873a-84d76b9e9dfe

Global Talent Scheme

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482/global-talent-scheme

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482/global-talent-scheme

/work-in-australia/Pages/global-talent-scheme.aspx

eb66e168-f489-42d9-af39-faca885c9f64

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482/labour-agreement-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482/labour-agreement-stream

/redirect-subsite/Pages/sid-labour-agreement-stream.aspx

9363e5f2-91a4-4c32-ab97-1ac3930fa2e1

Medium term stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482/medium-term-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482/medium-term-stream

/redirect-subsite/Pages/sid-medium-term.aspx

200a406a-0a5b-4b0e-bfa2-fb8897371138

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482/salary-requirements

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482/salary-requirements

0e78f6d7-6dcd-4cce-bfe4-f35d6bab9c21

Short term stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482/short-term-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482/short-term-stream

/redirect-subsite/Pages/sid-short-term.aspx

9aecfd98-7ddc-4028-9459-2cebf923ac40

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482/subsequent-entrant

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482/subsequent-entrant

/redirect-subsite/Pages/sid-subsequent-entrant.aspx

e65752e9-cd45-4011-8c4e-fa1f3a47a906

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482/sufficient-english

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-skill-shortage-482/sufficient-english

/redirect-subsite/Pages/sufficient-english.aspx

d6166931-ce26-43af-939e-867e2622c0f4

Temporary Work (International Relations) visa (subclass 403)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/403-temporary-work-international-relations-landing.aspx

18d92f8b-fa36-4cb2-85f7-71f07d4f1561

Domestic worker stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/domestic-worker

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/domestic-worker

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/403-domestic-worker.aspx

28885e75-98f6-4e76-9432-e9539fc523e7

Foreign Government agency stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/foreign-government-agency

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/foreign-government-agency

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/403-foreign-government-agency.aspx

ee9815c4-498c-474c-ada8-4cc284729e69

Government agreement stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/government-agreement

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/government-agreement

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/403-Government-agreement.aspx

8d17b583-787f-4bfe-8c33-a7973dbfa483

Mobility Arrangement for Talented Early-professionals Scheme (MATES)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/mates

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/mates

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/mates-403-landing.aspx

571569b4-11b1-48ba-8ca0-ffa05a6f9ec2

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/mates/ballot-registration

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/mates/ballot-registration

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/mates-403-ballot.aspx

04c4b536-8140-44cb-a047-c89fc6d51ddb

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/mates/ballot-registration/overview

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/mates/ballot-registration/overview

b01d6cd7-37c9-4db0-8b81-d6cf76e4dd34

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/mates/ballot-registration/ballot-eligibility

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/mates/ballot-registration/ballot-eligibility

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/ballot-eligibility-mates-403.aspx

5e102519-f80b-4ffd-a51e-c37abd810176

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/mates/ballot-registration/how-to-register

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/mates/ballot-registration/how-to-register

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/how-to-register-mates-403.aspx

e6d95c50-fe7b-45bc-bf0a-e05928c52bc9

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/mates/ballot-registration/after-you-register

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/mates/ballot-registration/after-you-register

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/after-you-register-mates-403.aspx

921a9973-bbda-4d36-b104-133bae38ba71

Mobility Arrangement for Talented Early-professionals Scheme (MATES) stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/mates/mobility-arrangement-for-talented-early-professionals-scheme-403

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/mates/mobility-arrangement-for-talented-early-professionals-scheme-403

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/mobility-arrangement-for-talented-early-professionals-scheme-403.aspx

14cfd4a7-db35-49d3-867d-ad4201bc59ed

Pacific Australia Labour Mobility stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/pacific-australia-labour-mobility-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/pacific-australia-labour-mobility-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/403-pacific-australia-labour-mobility-stream.aspx

4ea8a1e1-4d21-41a1-8e2a-f1678c4963f6

Pacific labour scheme stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/pacific-labour-scheme

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/pacific-labour-scheme

4de713dd-27bc-4d96-a8ff-52283b74ff03

Privileges immunities stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/privileges-immunities

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/privileges-immunities

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/403-privileges-immunities.aspx

02dbab81-318d-43ae-ba30-bbb7e15b1245

seasonal worker program stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/seasonal-worker-program

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-403/seasonal-worker-program

0140c005-e637-40cd-bab0-65a2b4edfb65

Temporary Work (Short Stay Specialist) visa (subclass 400)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-400

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/temporary-work-400

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/400-temporary-work-short-stay-specialist.aspx

3586365c-3572-4fd0-a6b7-d29c34967803

Training visa (subclass 407)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/training-407

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/training-407

/Visa-subsite/Pages/student/407-training.aspx

f7541bbb-b9c2-47fd-be5d-d06819554e82

Occupational training types

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/training-407/occupational-training-types

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/training-407/occupational-training-types

/supporting/Pages/Student/407-occupational-training.aspx

e3d77fec-f96f-4643-aabb-cd08be3609b9

Transit visa (subclass 771)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/transit-771

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/transit-771

/Visa-subsite/Pages/other-visas/771-transit-visa.aspx

8e3fede8-9972-41c8-a766-193fb4187ce7

Transit facilities at Australian airports

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/transit-771/transit-facilities-at-australian-airports

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/transit-771/transit-facilities-at-australian-airports

/supporting/Pages/Other/transit-facilities-australian-airports.aspx

cf646d65-d5cb-41c3-ba2a-2bb5ae2b757f

Travellers eligible to transit without visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/transit-771/travellers-eligible-to-transit-without-visa

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/transit-771/travellers-eligible-to-transit-without-visa

/supporting/Pages/Other/771-travellers-eligible-to-transit-without-visa.aspx

f269ab1e-21d9-4f72-9334-e2367763b2b2

Visitor visa (subclass 600)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/visitor-600

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/visitor-600

/Visa-subsite/Pages/visit/600-visitor-landing.aspx

a46df5cd-8dde-4005-8353-0097104178ee

Approved Destination Status stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/visitor-600/approved-destination-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/visitor-600/approved-destination-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/visit/600-approved-destination-status.aspx

dfd573a4-fa81-42be-a5e5-bad8b9e4312b

Business visitor stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/visitor-600/business-visitor-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/visitor-600/business-visitor-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/visit/600-business-visitor.aspx

a57410f6-a548-4ff3-8ccc-ec10f2d8c15e

Frequent Traveller stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/visitor-600/frequent-traveller-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/visitor-600/frequent-traveller-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/visit/600-frequent-traveller.aspx

1c19dee8-2351-48f6-bc40-9f03049d1504

Request to withdraw sponsorship for a Subclass 600 visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/visitor-600/request-withdraw-sponsorship-sc-600-visa

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/visitor-600/request-withdraw-sponsorship-sc-600-visa

/form-listing/Pages/withdraw-sponsorship-subclass-600-visa.aspx

10396458-1fb9-4999-8489-7c7f58f7b900

Sponsored Family stream

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/visitor-600/sponsored-family-stream

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/visitor-600/sponsored-family-stream

/Visa-subsite/Pages/visit/600-family-sponsored.aspx

be8f060e-2c21-498f-b3e0-7d6df3d94364

Tourist stream (applications from overseas)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/visitor-600/tourist-stream-overseas

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/visitor-600/tourist-stream-overseas

/Visa-subsite/Pages/visit/600-tourist-apply-overseas.aspx

67f7b5e2-200f-4d6c-bbbc-2b8b1c2dd502

Tourist stream (applications in Australia)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/visitor-600/tourist-stream-onshore

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/visitor-600/tourist-stream-onshore

/Visa-subsite/Pages/visit/600-tourist-apply-in-australia.aspx

26712fd0-f857-4985-8fe6-fa85431c654a

Work and Holiday visa (subclass 462)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-462

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-462

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/462-work-holiday-landing.aspx

4e587ab4-a9a6-4ab9-857b-b295d1668cea

6 month work limitation

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-462/6-month-work-limitation

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-462/6-month-work-limitation

/supporting/Pages/Work/6-month-work-limitation.aspx

29507111-2272-403c-8017-be838fb252a7

First Work and Holiday

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-462/first-work-holiday-462

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-462/first-work-holiday-462

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/462-working-and-holiday-first.aspx

d565692c-f916-4ea8-940e-a22a5695d5f1

Second Work and Holiday

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-462/second-work-holiday-462

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-462/second-work-holiday-462

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/462-working-and-holiday-second.aspx

b67a8707-3641-4426-aab3-be7544a8c5fd

Specified subclass 462 work

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-462/specified-462-work

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-462/specified-462-work

/supporting/Pages/Work/specified-subclass-462-work.aspx

dff381c7-1a94-4369-bb5c-099c6dc4ecba

Third Work and Holiday

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-462/third-work-and-holiday-462

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-462/third-work-and-holiday-462

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/462-working-and-holiday-third.aspx

3d959baf-68dd-4565-81ce-394d345ef04d

Tourism hospitality jobs working holiday program

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-462/tourism-hospitality-jobs-working-holiday-program

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-462/tourism-hospitality-jobs-working-holiday-program

/supporting/Pages/Work/tourism-hospitality-jobs-working-holiday-program.aspx

780e945b-6ae4-4c64-b7f5-974300488921

Working Holiday visa (subclass 417)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-417

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-417

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/417-working-holiday-visa-landing.aspx

8975dae6-aa7f-4ae1-9b2a-f3b96966599b

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-417/6-month-work-limitation

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-417/6-month-work-limitation

4e58cfbc-82b4-45d1-82ea-fff3cb3b08a8

First Working Holiday

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-417/first-working-holiday-417

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-417/first-working-holiday-417

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/417-working-holiday-first.aspx

a3750d97-7f90-4312-805d-fff219fe5e23

Second Working Holiday

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-417/second-working-holiday-417

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-417/second-working-holiday-417

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/417-working-holiday-second.aspx

6109f9af-ce95-4aaf-b5d0-cecd09ee35eb

Specified work

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-417/specified-work

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-417/specified-work

/supporting/Pages/Work/specified-work.aspx

5b877b42-ab8b-4e0d-bea7-9770f9917d64

Third Working Holiday

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-417/third-working-holiday-417

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing/work-holiday-417/third-working-holiday-417

/Visa-subsite/Pages/work/417-working-holiday-third.aspx

4441d552-e1fb-420e-91ef-2658a5d27e67

Visa processing times

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-processing-times

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-processing-times

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Processing-times/Overview.aspx

18382410-6b59-4183-a8d8-f6d9d49af2bb

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-processing-times/overview

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-processing-times/overview

47c6d5d8-7318-42c1-9c92-db1690c77269

Processing times guide

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-processing-times/global-visa-processing-times

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-processing-times/global-visa-processing-times

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Processing-times/Visa-processing-times.aspx

53e6aee3-f405-40f8-97dc-528ad19350a8

Visa processing priorities

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-processing-times/visa-processing-priorities

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-processing-times/visa-processing-priorities

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Processing-times/visa-processing-priorities.aspx

1926426c-6406-4925-8a7f-4c6d0e728682

Family visa processing priorities

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-processing-times/visa-processing-priorities/family-visa

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-processing-times/visa-processing-priorities/family-visa

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Processing-times/Family-visa-processing-priorities.aspx

6a9a779a-1798-4414-a28d-fba39d6e50d7

Parent visas queue release dates

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-processing-times/visa-processing-priorities/parent-visas

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-processing-times/visa-processing-priorities/parent-visas

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Processing-times/parent-visas-queue.aspx

c02f1984-e6be-4d60-aaac-fc3c9259a558

Other family visas queue release dates

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-processing-times/visa-processing-priorities/other-family-visas

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-processing-times/visa-processing-priorities/other-family-visas

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Processing-times/other-family-visas-queue.aspx

2e4e340d-aa53-48b6-979c-8be69147984d

Skilled visa processing priorities

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-processing-times/visa-processing-priorities/skilled-visa

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-processing-times/visa-processing-priorities/skilled-visa

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Processing-times/skilled-visa-processing-priorities.aspx

006395f9-caa0-4fb2-98cd-e5aeaa31a40e

Student visa processing priorities

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-processing-times/visa-processing-priorities/student-visa

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-processing-times/visa-processing-priorities/student-visa

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Processing-times/student-visa-processing-priorities.aspx

2523d364-f48e-4a9e-b0b6-b8f17e13ce32

Quarterly report

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-processing-times/quarterly-report

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-processing-times/quarterly-report

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Processing-times/Quarterly-report.aspx

02252a4e-b9fe-449d-995c-8cf5ec88173a

Changing visas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/moving-between-visas

/visas/getting-a-visa/moving-between-visas

/Visa-subsite/Pages/non-visa-products-content/Moving-between-visas.aspx

0871a18d-103b-4057-91b4-ee7a4b83a4c6

Fees and charges for visas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges

/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Fees-and-charges/Overview.aspx

f700be17-acac-4e06-bdca-bbf9b6679c6a

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/overview

/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/overview

7f3d7454-bc24-4003-8616-fb98e9cad2c2

Current pricing

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/current-visa-pricing

/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/current-visa-pricing

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Fees-and-charges/Visa-fees-and-charges.aspx

9bd29e76-dd5a-4bc7-8137-c9d51d52d627

Repealed or closed visas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/current-visa-pricing/repealed-or-closed-visas

/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/current-visa-pricing/repealed-or-closed-visas

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Fees-and-charges/Repealed.aspx

1f97a922-a0c5-4779-bd1d-f9ef846121bf

Explanation of application charges

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/explanation-of-visa-application-charges

/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/explanation-of-visa-application-charges

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Fees-and-charges/Explanation-of-visa-application-charges.aspx

64a9eb08-ba8a-45b2-9a2b-4499aafe2b8a

Surcharges

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/explanation-of-visa-application-charges/surcharges

/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/explanation-of-visa-application-charges/surcharges

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Fees-and-charges/surcharges-for-visa-payments.aspx

4f4d2554-57bb-46f6-8332-14c2f61ccaec

Visa application charge instalments

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/explanation-of-visa-application-charges/visa-application-charge-instalments

/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/explanation-of-visa-application-charges/visa-application-charge-instalments

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Fees-and-charges/Visa-application-charge-instalments.aspx

0215e65c-4833-4d1a-828e-9d427ee84be6

Base application charge

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/explanation-of-visa-application-charges/base-application-charge

/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/explanation-of-visa-application-charges/base-application-charge

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Fees-and-charges/Base-application-charge .aspx

2f32730c-37cd-49b0-ae97-389f14773fb0

Additional applicant charge

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/explanation-of-visa-application-charges/additional-applicant-charge

/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/explanation-of-visa-application-charges/additional-applicant-charge

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Fees-and-charges/Additional-applicant-charge .aspx

eafd2790-0b0b-4d07-b2a3-a268f160a13e

Non-internet application charge

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/explanation-of-visa-application-charges/non-internet-application-charge

/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/explanation-of-visa-application-charges/non-internet-application-charge

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Fees-and-charges/Non-internet-application-charge.aspx

45170fcf-7f98-414c-ae6b-d41dcfc6f130

Subsequent temporary application charge

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/explanation-of-visa-application-charges/subsequent-temporary-application-charge

/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/explanation-of-visa-application-charges/subsequent-temporary-application-charge

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Fees-and-charges/Subsequent-temporary-application-charge .aspx

bb044a3f-3d85-46b1-aba3-8e626df3f021

Calculating the visa application charge

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/explanation-of-visa-application-charges/calculating-the-visa-application-charge

/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/explanation-of-visa-application-charges/calculating-the-visa-application-charge

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Fees-and-charges/Calculating-the-visa-application-charge.aspx

65b0590d-4360-4e40-b9be-8238d5f7eddb

What happens if I have not paid the correct amount?

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/explanation-of-visa-application-charges/what-happens-if-i-have-not-paid-the-correct-amount

/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/explanation-of-visa-application-charges/what-happens-if-i-have-not-paid-the-correct-amount

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Fees-and-charges/What-happens-if-I-have-not-paid-the-correct-amount.aspx

0d3c1faf-9513-4234-8c3c-4426fc0c3596

Refunds

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/explanation-of-visa-application-charges/refunds

/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/explanation-of-visa-application-charges/refunds

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Fees-and-charges/Refunds.aspx

7247ba5c-dda5-4702-9ac3-a7f1696cc3f5

Fees and charges for other services

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/fees-and-charges-for-other-services

/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/fees-and-charges-for-other-services

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Fees-and-charges/Fees-and-charges-for-other-services.aspx

2e8ddeab-b71f-4bbb-a139-6b27bd8668ee

Assurance of support

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/fees-and-charges-for-other-services/assurance-of-support

/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/fees-and-charges-for-other-services/assurance-of-support

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Fees-and-charges/Assurance-of-support.aspx

635fcd64-7cc7-4152-81e1-9e2213d5bcec

Review of decisions

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/fees-and-charges-for-other-services/review-of-decisions

/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/fees-and-charges-for-other-services/review-of-decisions

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Fees-and-charges/Review-of-decisions.aspx

dab68944-a766-460a-99c9-90c294690e66

Related costs

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/fees-and-charges-for-other-services/related-costs

/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/fees-and-charges-for-other-services/related-costs

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Fees-and-charges/Related-costs.aspx

7579ec92-5193-4d44-a7d4-2aab41e3c21e

APEC business travel card costs

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/fees-and-charges-for-other-services/apec-business-travel-card-costs

/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/fees-and-charges-for-other-services/apec-business-travel-card-costs

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Fees-and-charges/APEC-business-travel-card-costs.aspx

d9880600-3952-46db-8371-4e2a988822eb

ImmiCards and verification of status costs

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/fees-and-charges-for-other-services/immicards-and-verification-of-status-costs

/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/fees-and-charges-for-other-services/immicards-and-verification-of-status-costs

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Fees-and-charges/immiCards-and-verification-of-status.aspx

6abbc161-9832-4a54-9f78-7ff3b8071753

Nomination and sponsorship

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/fees-and-charges-for-other-services/nomination-and-sponsorship

/visas/getting-a-visa/fees-and-charges/fees-and-charges-for-other-services/nomination-and-sponsorship

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Fees-and-charges/nomination-and-sponsorship-fees.aspx

c9643e59-141b-4208-912e-34d40bf9f385

Check twice submit once

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/check-twice-submit-once

/visas/getting-a-visa/check-twice-submit-once

/check-twice-submit-once-subsite/Pages/check-twice-submit-once.aspx

469cf1eb-79df-4044-b73b-ae37a720a68f

BIIP closure and refunds

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/biip-closure-and-refunds

/visas/getting-a-visa/biip-closure-and-refunds

/Visa-subsite/Pages/biip-refunds.aspx

89812147-7b8f-4b83-8260-8fd970d8e0f3

COVID-19 visa concessions

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-concessions

/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-concessions

/Visa-subsite/Pages/visa-concessions.aspx

c0785497-5abc-4f01-92eb-81b7dfd65600

ETA and AIA video guides

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/eta-and-aia-video-guides

/visas/getting-a-visa/eta-and-aia-video-guides

/Visa-subsite/Pages/eta-and-aia-video-guides.aspx

79f6187b-d9af-4223-a100-f5419ba20007

Partner Visa Frequently Asked Questions

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/partner-visa-frequently-asked-questions

/visas/getting-a-visa/partner-visa-frequently-asked-questions

/Visa-subsite/Pages/family/partner-visa-faqs.aspx

530069f8-d3b9-4b8c-86a5-fca0d9a7fa87

Working in Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia

/visas/working-in-australia

/work-in-australia/Pages/Work-in-Australia.aspx

d67592e1-f46d-4a09-9f85-0d5d76ce04a2

Skilled occupation list

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/skill-occupation-list

/visas/working-in-australia/skill-occupation-list

/work-in-australia/Pages/Skill-occupation-list.aspx

1f5a0114-d027-409b-9b5f-5958c8bb68ce

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/skill-occupation-list/regional-postcodes

/visas/working-in-australia/skill-occupation-list/regional-postcodes

~sitecollection/supporting/Pages/Work/regional-postcodes.aspx

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/supporting/Pages/Work/regional-postcodes.aspx

369187c8-2c31-4726-978b-60c5b51ac8d2

Skillselect

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect

/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect

/work-in-australia/Pages/skillselect/skillselect-overview.aspx

8ebdab9f-9e60-4c38-b7c3-71aa9e1b294e

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/overview

/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/overview

1f576662-2e81-4697-a1ac-4020b619bd2b

Expression of interest

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/expression-of-interest

/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/expression-of-interest

/work-in-australia/Pages/skillselect/expression-of-interest.aspx

1170e506-75ff-44d7-8bfc-da44ca348519

Submitting your Expression of Interest

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/expression-of-interest/submitting-your-expression-of-interest

/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/expression-of-interest/submitting-your-expression-of-interest

/work-in-australia/Pages/skillselect/completing-your-expression-of-Interest.aspx

d7aa0491-de81-43f9-9f97-bc81c5097d06

After you submit your Expression of Interest

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/expression-of-interest/after-you-submit-your-expression-of-interest

/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/expression-of-interest/after-you-submit-your-expression-of-interest

/work-in-australia/Pages/skillselect/after-you-submit-your-expression-of-interest.aspx

ab95bff7-3af4-4780-8a9b-fa471cf96efb

Change a SkillSelect password

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/expression-of-interest/change-a-skillselect-password

/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/expression-of-interest/change-a-skillselect-password

/work-in-australia/Pages/skillselect/change-a-skillselect-password1215-1329.aspx

97b448a7-6fc7-4d0d-ba38-bd51645dd37c

Manual password reset request

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/expression-of-interest/change-a-skillselect-password/manual-password-reset-request

/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/expression-of-interest/change-a-skillselect-password/manual-password-reset-request

/work-in-australia/Pages/skillselect-manual-password-reset-request.aspx

f1c4b27d-f0c0-477e-94d2-9df47fa3ab9d

SkillSelect technical problems

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/expression-of-interest/skillselect-technical-problems

/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/expression-of-interest/skillselect-technical-problems

/work-in-australia/Pages/skillselect/skillselect-technical-problems1215-9922.aspx

24ae84f1-9a58-4b05-9ed7-3e97b37bf83f

Why Australia?

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/why-australia

/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/why-australia

/work-in-australia/Pages/skillselect/why-australia.aspx

7c29468d-054b-44c1-b5dc-8d654f7eb421

Success stories

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/why-australia/success-stories

/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/why-australia/success-stories

/work-in-australia/Pages/skillselect/success-stories.aspx

80ef5ffc-9e7b-4ac5-a3e8-1990940bfe96

Invitation rounds

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/invitation-rounds

/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/invitation-rounds

/work-in-australia/Pages/skillselect/invitation-rounds1215-3637.aspx

25bb93c8-2d59-4fbe-aacf-139aea4b053b

Previous rounds

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/previous-rounds

/visas/working-in-australia/skillselect/previous-rounds

/work-in-australia/Pages/skillselect/previous-rounds.aspx

c63ad4ff-4a69-4858-9bc7-6d486da01953

Skills assessment

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/skills-assessment

/visas/working-in-australia/skills-assessment

/work-in-australia/Pages/Skills-assessment.aspx

4e3a8b6d-e8d8-40fe-b4a1-ed4798f90347

Assessing authorities

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/skills-assessment/assessing-authorities

/visas/working-in-australia/skills-assessment/assessing-authorities

/work-in-australia/Pages/Assessing-authorities.aspx

4060d727-aefc-4804-b210-6f8f71422a1b

Workers rights and visa protections

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/work-rights-and-exploitation

/visas/working-in-australia/work-rights-and-exploitation

/work-in-australia/Pages/rights-restrictions/workers-rights-restrictions.aspx

4811c297-d545-4252-b6b8-7fcbef36ee01

Work restrictions

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/work-rights-and-exploitation/work-restrictions

/visas/working-in-australia/work-rights-and-exploitation/work-restrictions

/work-in-australia/Pages/rights-restrictions/work-restrictions.aspx

896af31e-5028-49e7-8e01-338f64a74815

Work visa scams

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/work-rights-and-exploitation/work-visa-scams

/visas/working-in-australia/work-rights-and-exploitation/work-visa-scams

/work-in-australia/Pages/rights-restrictions/work-visa-scams.aspx

e71d993c-4bc9-4bab-a159-1b3826dd1bd4

Strengthening Reporting Protections Pilot

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/work-rights-and-exploitation/strengthening-reporting-protections-pilot

/visas/working-in-australia/work-rights-and-exploitation/strengthening-reporting-protections-pilot

/work-in-australia/Pages/rights-restrictions/strengthening-reporting-protections-pilot.aspx

1f9c7bb9-8c02-4102-9ebd-c893c6ff122e

Strengthening Reporting Protection Request Process

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/work-rights-and-exploitation/strengthening-reporting-protections-pilot/request-process-form

/visas/working-in-australia/work-rights-and-exploitation/strengthening-reporting-protections-pilot/request-process-form

/work-in-australia/Pages/rights-restrictions/strengthening-reporting-protection-request-process.aspx

d8d77dc0-b9ca-4d83-9bde-a14e61a22a1c

Permanent work visas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/permanent-work-visas

/visas/working-in-australia/permanent-work-visas

/work-in-australia/Pages/permanent-work-visas/permanent-work-visas.aspx

a3f085a6-edd7-4174-89b9-e2ffcbbe84c7

Regional migration

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration

/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration

/work-in-australia/Pages/Regional-migration/regional-migration.aspx

3e288365-758f-4bb7-9883-2ce9fbd382b5

Regional visas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration/regional-visas

/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration/regional-visas

/work-in-australia/Pages/Regional-migration/regional-visas.aspx

58f8cffc-86db-4d0a-b76c-eeefe03934f8

Designated Area Migration Agreements (DAMA)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration/dama

/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration/dama

/work-in-australia/Pages/Regional-migration/zdama.aspx

a1be695e-d0b5-4742-a86b-46feef14dc81

Employ or sponsor someone

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration/employ-or-sponsor-someone

/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration/employ-or-sponsor-someone

/work-in-australia/Pages/Regional-migration/employ-or-sponsor-someone.aspx

6f2a62e3-cc82-4ea0-b49d-266ab909d81a

Supporting regional communities

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration/supporting-regional-communities

/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration/supporting-regional-communities

/work-in-australia/Pages/Regional-migration/regional-communities.aspx

91a46a51-c751-46d2-b1ca-2ac5a58d63c2

Designated regional areas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration/eligible-regional-areas

/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration/eligible-regional-areas

/work-in-australia/Pages/Regional-migration/eligible-regional-areas.aspx

f7f35c90-1fa2-4abd-8250-f2d79e997034

Occupations

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration/occupations

/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration/occupations

/work-in-australia/Pages/Regional-migration/occupations.aspx

4fdacad1-c798-4ede-b24d-ae8ed47c314e

Working in agriculture

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration/working-in-agriculture

/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration/working-in-agriculture

/Pages/working-in-agriculture/overview.aspx

b3940902-a53f-4159-8cf0-f061c6f3b339

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration/working-in-agriculture/overview

/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration/working-in-agriculture/overview

/work-in-australia/Pages/working-in-agriculture/overview.aspx

fddfb308-7868-40f6-ac6a-0a823c4b5f64

Visa options

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration/working-in-agriculture/visa-options

/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration/working-in-agriculture/visa-options

/work-in-australia/Pages/working-in-agriculture/visa-options.aspx

06107016-1a60-4dd6-88b6-c6060a45e17b

Employers in agriculture

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration/working-in-agriculture/employers-in-agriculture

/visas/working-in-australia/regional-migration/working-in-agriculture/employers-in-agriculture

/work-in-australia/Pages/working-in-agriculture/agricultural-employers.aspx

fe5c750a-f885-4c2d-9902-ba16f3b4f81f

Short stay work visas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/short-stay-work-visas

/visas/working-in-australia/short-stay-work-visas

/work-in-australia/Pages/short-stay-temporary/short-stay-work-visa.aspx

054bc11f-6646-4fae-b0d7-06f0cd68a847

Temporary work visas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/temporary-work-visas

/visas/working-in-australia/temporary-work-visas

/work-in-australia/Pages/temporary-work-visa/temporary-work-visas.aspx

4ee1039c-f65d-4716-938e-7f21e6dd40d8

Visas for innovation v2

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation

/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation

/work-in-australia/Pages/visas-for-innovation/visas-for-innovation.aspx

8d29a1e8-b6d0-45a8-bb8c-24f32409e6fd

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/overview

/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/overview

27bc5833-a8f5-4b2d-8e09-2297296a736d

National Innovation visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/national-innovation-visa

/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/national-innovation-visa

/work-in-australia/Pages/visas-for-innovation/global-talent-independent-program.aspx

5958cb72-0acc-4ee0-8735-645d32627db6

National Innovation visa priorities

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/national-innovation-visa/priorities

/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/national-innovation-visa/priorities

/work-in-australia/Pages/visas-for-innovation/niv-priorities.aspx

95495950-c9ec-4272-a004-ff3a0cfc4c55

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/national-innovation-visa/eoi-submission

/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/national-innovation-visa/eoi-submission

/work-in-australia/Pages/visas-for-innovation/submitting-your-expression-of-interest.aspx

c0b4992d-a5f6-4a13-9661-84113f767026

After submitting your Expression of Interest

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/national-innovation-visa/after-submission

/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/national-innovation-visa/after-submission

/work-in-australia/Pages/visas-for-innovation/after-submitting-your-expression-of-interest.aspx

d85bd8ba-2f0f-438d-bb94-a7197a7236ec

Current invitation round

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/national-innovation-visa/current-invitation-round

/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/national-innovation-visa/current-invitation-round

/work-in-australia/Pages/visas-for-innovation/current-invitation-round.aspx

ccfa95b2-ccba-4db7-bcda-a2500772dd99

Previous invitation rounds

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/national-innovation-visa/previous-invitation-rounds

/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/national-innovation-visa/previous-invitation-rounds

/work-in-australia/Pages/visas-for-innovation/previous-invitation-rounds.aspx

e88a823c-7db4-426a-88c9-1e6775cf7bc3

Technical problems

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/national-innovation-visa/troubleshoot

/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/national-innovation-visa/troubleshoot

/work-in-australia/Pages/visas-for-innovation/technical-problems.aspx

733320d5-f887-4625-bf06-8bbbbd164462

Global Talent Employer Sponsored (GTES)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/global-talent-scheme

/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/global-talent-scheme

/work-in-australia/Pages/visas-for-innovation/global-talent-employer-sponsored.aspx

a412b13b-b6b3-4f01-8060-16724a8f8e71

Global Talent Program

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/global-talent-independent-program

/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/global-talent-independent-program

/redirect-subsite/Pages/global-talent-program-visas-for-innovation.aspx

ad073b9b-4d83-43b0-945d-e405b67821e6

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/global-talent-independent-program/priorities

/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/global-talent-independent-program/priorities

75359791-1890-4002-8de4-c2c02d68cc67

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/global-talent-independent-program/eoi-submission

/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/global-talent-independent-program/eoi-submission

c29355ad-0c01-4a38-9c64-84ec849b0fb3

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/global-talent-independent-program/after-submission

/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/global-talent-independent-program/after-submission

038d1872-5aab-4edd-9e8f-9246ae4767e9

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/global-talent-independent-program/troubleshoot

/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/global-talent-independent-program/troubleshoot

f7173654-8789-4d07-8dc6-a1835516fe9d

EOI requirements

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/global-talent-independent-program/eligibility

/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/global-talent-independent-program/eligibility

/work-in-australia/Pages/visas-for-innovation/gtvp-eligibility.aspx

de8ed164-5127-42a1-ad2b-696f8650a32d

Expression of Interest Submission

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/global-talent-independent-program/how-to-apply

/visas/working-in-australia/visas-for-innovation/global-talent-independent-program/how-to-apply

/work-in-australia/Pages/visas-for-innovation/gtvp-apply.aspx

d6759af1-3383-47f0-a225-4f89f8078532

Employing or sponsoring workers

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone

/employer-subsite/Pages/default.aspx

282e6801-7136-4415-a7c6-b81daf3eb651

Employing overseas workers

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/employing-overseas-workers

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/employing-overseas-workers

/employer-subsite/Pages/employing-people-from-overseas.aspx

ae88cac9-01db-436d-9fc2-a116cfee5e61

Existing sponsors

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/existing-sponsors

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/existing-sponsors

/employer-subsite/Pages/existing-sponsor.aspx

e77f529e-a710-4b77-8af2-51634babd514

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/existing-sponsors/change-in-situation

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/existing-sponsors/change-in-situation

/employer-subsite/Pages/Already-sponsoring-someone.aspx

cb8ca1be-4d2d-4802-8ef1-fd51ad77c639

Sponsorship obligations for standard business sponsors

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/existing-sponsors/standard-business-accredited-obligations

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/existing-sponsors/standard-business-accredited-obligations

/employer-subsite/Pages/Obligations.aspx

0cc9a2d3-7cb0-405b-855b-ecaf4545123b

Sponsorship obligations for Temporary activities sponsors

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/existing-sponsors/tas-sponsorship-obligations

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/existing-sponsors/tas-sponsorship-obligations

/employer-subsite/Pages/Sponsorship-obligations-for-Temporary-activity-sponsor.aspx

8de1c590-92df-4523-9513-6a73d4d5d38a

Learn about employing migrants

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/learn-about-employing-migrants

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/learn-about-employing-migrants

62b6bd11-110a-4bef-894f-5cff6ed1b323

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/learn-about-employing-migrants/overview

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/learn-about-employing-migrants/overview

6d48b544-4468-4719-b62b-9d9dcac5b7bb

Your responsibilities

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/learn-about-employing-migrants/your-responsibilities

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/learn-about-employing-migrants/your-responsibilities

/employer-subsite/Pages/employer-responsibilities-obligations.aspx

72169b43-e3cf-4c09-a55c-67d8fa72c967

Managing people in Australia's offshore oil and gas industry

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/learn-about-employing-migrants/your-responsibilities/managing-people-australias-offshore-oil-gas-industry

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/learn-about-employing-migrants/your-responsibilities/managing-people-australias-offshore-oil-gas-industry

/employer-subsite/Pages/employing-people-offshore-oil-gas-industry.aspx

59aacdf6-159f-4c17-828f-8b8a6fa97020

Labour hire

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/learn-about-employing-migrants/hire-someone-in-australia

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/learn-about-employing-migrants/hire-someone-in-australia

/employer-subsite/Pages/using-labour-hire-referral-company.aspx

30318da9-33e6-4726-8a6b-1a8613454939

Hiring someone in Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/hire-someone-in-australia

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/hire-someone-in-australia

/employer-subsite/Pages/hiring-people-in-australia.aspx

f0837ec6-6111-4f26-987a-a47eff4db9b4

Sponsoring workers

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers

53f1b7ec-b823-4f8b-b4a1-31f5949cd78f

Learn about sponsoring

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/learn-about-sponsoring

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/learn-about-sponsoring

/employer-subsite/Pages/learn-about-sponsorship.aspx

6e5b3819-8fab-4175-8f9f-511ff45ad9a8

Visa options for skilled sponsored workers

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/learn-about-sponsoring/visa-options

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/learn-about-sponsoring/visa-options

/employer-subsite/Pages/compare-sponsored-skilled-visa-options.aspx

92239cba-56f6-4bd7-a1cc-a5f066254e85

How to sponsor a worker

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/learn-about-sponsoring/how-to-sponsor-a-worker

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/learn-about-sponsoring/how-to-sponsor-a-worker

/employer-subsite/Pages/step-by-step.aspx

7b856e27-8e91-4b7f-ba22-1d8e7681906b

Cost of sponsoring

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/learn-about-sponsoring/cost-of-sponsoring

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/learn-about-sponsoring/cost-of-sponsoring

/employer-subsite/Pages/cost-of-sponsoring.aspx

c3cbdd14-30da-4c09-b8f4-eec1462dd3ed

Becoming a sponsor

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/becoming-a-sponsor

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/becoming-a-sponsor

/employer-subsite/Pages/become-a-sponsor.aspx

77a98701-9620-453b-b195-8c655c63bc3e

Accredited sponsor

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/becoming-a-sponsor/accredited-sponsor

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/becoming-a-sponsor/accredited-sponsor

/employer-subsite/Pages/becoming-an-accredited-sponsor.aspx

44678ad6-ab24-4f64-9a86-67f71792459e

Standard business sponsor

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/becoming-a-sponsor/standard-business-sponsor

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/becoming-a-sponsor/standard-business-sponsor

/employer-subsite/Pages/becoming-standard-business-sponsor.aspx

b1511d51-ec48-4bb2-a789-3b1e889fc6c3

Temporary activities sponsor

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/becoming-a-sponsor/temporary-activities-sponsor

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/becoming-a-sponsor/temporary-activities-sponsor

/employer-subsite/Pages/becoming-temporary-activities-sponsor.aspx

7d7e4b4e-1f5d-4ca4-974a-d29afd3d7ce3

Nominating a position

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/nominating-a-position

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/nominating-a-position

/employer-subsite/Pages/nominating-overview.aspx

359079da-3b41-40c7-8a80-eacb07ff4c24

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/nominating-a-position/overview

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/nominating-a-position/overview

3a8c460c-1683-42b3-b10a-5e9b98f599c1

Labour market testing

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/nominating-a-position/labour-market-testing

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/nominating-a-position/labour-market-testing

/employer-subsite/Pages/labour-market-testing.aspx

9baec8f0-b3ea-4da3-8833-5d2f0ebf305a

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/nominating-a-position/salary-requirements

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/nominating-a-position/salary-requirements

60bc9e5d-7280-4ee5-97a1-5103fadd52bf

Priority Migration Skilled Occupation List

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/pmsol

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/pmsol

/employer-subsite/Pages/pmsol.aspx

ad7a74f8-7e02-4dc1-b3c9-70d3564fe56b

Business, industry and regional outreach

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/business-industry-and-regional-outreach

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/business-industry-and-regional-outreach

/employer-subsite/Pages/employer-support.aspx

321e8eed-4549-4548-a3a2-c0b2672cfc5a

Sponsor responsibilities

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsor-responsibilities

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsor-responsibilities

/employer-subsite/Pages/employer-responsibilities.aspx

33f3e6df-3c12-4724-99f7-c843f80c1917

Work-related contraventions

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsor-responsibilities/work-related-contraventions

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsor-responsibilities/work-related-contraventions

/employer-subsite/Pages/work-related-offences.aspx

e80fb3b1-8bf3-4eb0-9b77-d0f6476daa10

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsor-responsibilities/managing-people-in-australias-offshore-oil-and-gas-industry

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsor-responsibilities/managing-people-in-australias-offshore-oil-and-gas-industry

e82d7435-da0d-45ac-8948-5c6cb3953656

Explore options for employers

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/explore-options-for-employers

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/explore-options-for-employers

/employer-subsite/Pages/options-for-employers.aspx

6286663b-e708-4618-8a9b-3d0ba5d73199

Worker rights

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/worker-rights

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/worker-rights

/employer-subsite/Pages/existing-sponsors.aspx

5a8626bc-c2f6-4171-a78f-3f317a229234

Labour Agreements

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/labour-agreements

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/labour-agreements

/employer-subsite/Pages/labour-agreements-landing.aspx

2fde46cd-dd34-4ea9-aac8-205f61b7c056

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/labour-agreements/overview

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/labour-agreements/overview

2e45099f-c10a-4e2a-94b3-69bbc63fa2c3

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/labour-agreements/step-by-step

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/labour-agreements/step-by-step

/employer-subsite/Pages/la-step-by-step.aspx

67dd0de7-aa15-4e4c-b46a-7ea93c39df5f

Types of labour agreements

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/labour-agreements/types-of-labour-agreements

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/labour-agreements/types-of-labour-agreements

/employer-subsite/Pages/labour-agreements.aspx

f3d94727-cd7e-4c3c-baac-2ef42930bdf4

Industry labour agreements

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/labour-agreements/types-of-labour-agreements/industry-labour-agreements

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/labour-agreements/types-of-labour-agreements/industry-labour-agreements

/employer-subsite/Pages/Industry-labour-agreements.aspx

5e0b309f-bce4-4609-a375-dbd761da49b8

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/labour-agreements/types-of-labour-agreements/designated-area-migration-agreements-(dama)

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/labour-agreements/types-of-labour-agreements/designated-area-migration-agreements-(dama)

/employer-subsite/Pages/designated-area-migration-agreements.aspx

9961b013-3be2-467e-80c8-a8bf584c2281

Company specific labour agreements

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/labour-agreements/types-of-labour-agreements/company-specific-labour-agreements

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/labour-agreements/types-of-labour-agreements/company-specific-labour-agreements

/employer-subsite/Pages/company-specific-labour-agreements.aspx

ff4ef15b-e3d7-4bd9-a8a3-b19ecbc174e3

Skilled refugee labour agreement pilot

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/labour-agreements/types-of-labour-agreements/skilled-refugee-labour-agreement-pilot

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/labour-agreements/types-of-labour-agreements/skilled-refugee-labour-agreement-pilot

/employer-subsite/Pages/skilled-refugee-labour-agreement-program.aspx

391ed018-002b-48ba-83ec-cee19d008fb3

List of current labour agreements

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/labour-agreements/list-of-current-labour-agreements

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/labour-agreements/list-of-current-labour-agreements

/employer-subsite/Pages/list-of-current-labour-agreements.aspx

831d8d59-c84f-438f-b279-50a1a0f080c9

Migrant worker protections

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/migrant-worker-protections

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/migrant-worker-protections

/employer-subsite/Pages/laws-to-protect-migrant-workers/laws-to-protect-migrant-workers.aspx

b5e767ba-110b-4948-8308-dbb5c320104b

Information for migrant workers

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/migrant-worker-protections/information-for-migrant-workers

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/migrant-worker-protections/information-for-migrant-workers

/employer-subsite/Pages/laws-to-protect-migrant-workers/information-for-migrant-workers.aspx

1e083868-7397-42be-a5dd-4b72831dadfc

Information for employers and labour hire intermediaries

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/migrant-worker-protections/information-for-employers-and-labour-hire-intermediaries

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/migrant-worker-protections/information-for-employers-and-labour-hire-intermediaries

/employer-subsite/Pages/laws-to-protect-migrant-workers/information-for-employers-and-labour-hire-intermediaries.aspx

48d7145f-dc21-4ad4-8356-a8b91b63fbda

Case studies

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/migrant-worker-protections/case-studies

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/migrant-worker-protections/case-studies

/employer-subsite/Pages/laws-to-protect-migrant-workers/case-studies.aspx

c5e61400-67e1-437b-93bf-831a0d58611a

Help, reporting protections and the Workplace Justice visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/migrant-worker-protections/help-reporting-protections-workplace-justice-visa

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/migrant-worker-protections/help-reporting-protections-workplace-justice-visa

/employer-subsite/Pages/laws-to-protect-migrant-workers/get-help.aspx

44e238ab-12d5-4817-8773-e291fd2851ae

Migrant worker financial exploitation

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/migrant-worker-protections/migrant-worker-financial-exploitation

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/migrant-worker-protections/migrant-worker-financial-exploitation

/employer-subsite/Pages/laws-to-protect-migrant-workers/migrant-worker-financial-exploitation.aspx

997ce656-3c7d-450e-8596-3b9c720e03e6

Resources and translated material

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/migrant-worker-protections/resources-and-translated-material

/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/migrant-worker-protections/resources-and-translated-material

/employer-subsite/Pages/laws-to-protect-migrant-workers/translated-resources.aspx

7ff6c27f-ad0b-42e5-ba26-6880b7301481

Bringing someone

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/bringing-someone

/bringing/Pages/default.aspx

85bc6b85-7968-4347-ba4a-df21479d2c20

Bringing partner or family

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-partner-or-family

/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-partner-or-family

/bringing/Pages/Bringing-a-partner-or-family.aspx

5f73808a-7736-448b-b4d7-69d9cab56fcf

Sponsored Parent (Temporary) visa (subclass 870)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-partner-or-family/five-year-temporary-sponsored-parents-visa

/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-partner-or-family/five-year-temporary-sponsored-parents-visa

/bringing/Pages/introducing-five-year-temp-sponsored-parent-visa.aspx

724d8e91-5e4a-4f72-8253-dc3c48851716

Bringing for activities

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities

/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities

/bringing/Pages/bringing-for-activities.aspx

12a3b83f-5350-4aa5-9078-0d6513ca6ea0

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/overview

/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/overview

/bringing/Pages/Overview.aspx

74e4ffd3-227f-4a50-b8cd-7fe777d6d550

Becoming a temporary activities sponsor

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/becoming-a-temporary-activities-sponsor

/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/becoming-a-temporary-activities-sponsor

/bringing/Pages/Becoming-a-temporary-activities-sponsor.aspx

36d347f9-a566-4f7b-9a91-d48197d8f1f1

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/eligibility

/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/eligibility

/bringing/Pages/Eligibility.aspx

0028d03d-6cb4-4f68-b2a7-c7385940a211

Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408) streams

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/eligibility/temporary-activity-visa-(subclass-408)-streams

/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/eligibility/temporary-activity-visa-(subclass-408)-streams

/bringing/Pages/Temporary-Activity-408.aspx

2559bb8d-8916-4dbb-b2e3-f180c967efe1

Temporary Work (International relations) visa (subclass 403) streams

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/eligibility/temporary-work-(international-relations)-visa-(subclass-403)-streams

/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/eligibility/temporary-work-(international-relations)-visa-(subclass-403)-streams

/bringing/Pages/Temporary-work-international-relations-403.aspx

7939dde5-5fd5-47aa-adcf-bf7ee3419581

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/eligibility/training-visa-(subclass-407)

/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/eligibility/training-visa-(subclass-407)

/bringing/Pages/Training-407.aspx

e06762fb-cd5c-4d7c-99c0-29680b057e1d

Obligations

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/obligations

/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/obligations

/bringing/Pages/Obligations.aspx

125f4f78-f260-408d-8575-3883a39d1c21

Obligations that apply to some temporary activities sponsors

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/obligations/obligations-that-apply-to-some-temporary-activities-sponsors

/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/obligations/obligations-that-apply-to-some-temporary-activities-sponsors

/bringing/Pages/Obligations-that-apply-to-some-temporary-activities-sponsors.aspx

9b88c899-b1d7-409b-a9a6-4ea933a5f494

Sponsor monitoring

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/obligations/sponsor-monitoring

/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/obligations/sponsor-monitoring

/bringing/Pages/Sponsor-monitoring.aspx

f11b15af-34f7-4e46-85c9-53d4eeb7a7d3

Sanctions

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/obligations/sanctions

/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/obligations/sanctions

/bringing/Pages/Sanctions.aspx

09cdb6eb-32a9-4a6b-aef9-a3bbbea64fdd

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/step-by-step

/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/step-by-step

/bringing/Pages/Step-by-step.aspx

50aa8308-20c8-4606-ae69-ba68fbbc830c

Sponsoring and supporting

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/sponsoring-and-supporting

/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/sponsoring-and-supporting

/bringing/Pages/Sponsoring-and-supporting.aspx

e36a6b85-5ca1-4050-a675-c3fbfacc1685

Sponsoring an applicant

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/sponsoring-and-supporting/sponsoring-an-applicant

/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/sponsoring-and-supporting/sponsoring-an-applicant

/bringing/Pages/Sponsoring-an-applicant.aspx

1fc516ef-852e-4618-90c7-ed79f7407c61

Supporting an applicant

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/sponsoring-and-supporting/supporting-an-applicant

/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/sponsoring-and-supporting/supporting-an-applicant

/bringing/Pages/Supporting-an-applicant.aspx

92686068-7e2c-439a-a1e5-c5e5a78cddcc

When you are a sponsor

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/sponsoring-and-supporting/when-you-are-a-sponsor

/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/sponsoring-and-supporting/when-you-are-a-sponsor

/bringing/Pages/When-you-are-a-sponsor.aspx

25aad13c-7892-4187-b70e-419b8f8ad235

The International Event Coordinator Network

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/sponsoring-and-supporting/the-international-event-coordinator-network

/visas/bringing-someone/bringing-for-activities/sponsoring-and-supporting/the-international-event-coordinator-network

/bringing/Pages/The-international-event-coordinator-network.aspx

4ed2468e-2dcd-49dd-9da3-b63f4653ab77

When you have a visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/already-have-a-visa

/visas/already-have-a-visa

/changes-situation-subsite/Pages/default.aspx

82441c50-efa3-4b77-a7ac-f5a6af066dcf

Check visa details and conditions

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions

/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions

/visa-conditions-subsite/Pages/Overview.aspx

0b5fcf17-e808-4336-8e69-e36d1fcae783

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions/overview

/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions/overview

53681b11-5e23-4e67-9e6c-5a38edf17997

Check conditions online (VEVO)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions/check-conditions-online

/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions/check-conditions-online

/visa-conditions-subsite/Pages/Check-conditions-online-vevo.aspx

ce332a25-cfa8-44e1-89c0-81f0e67c94f7

Visa holders

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions/check-conditions-online/visa-holders

/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions/check-conditions-online/visa-holders

/visa-conditions-subsite/Pages/vevo-for-individuals.aspx

73c87ff5-8be1-4539-9d2e-39ecca20f30a

Organisations

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions/check-conditions-online/for-organisations

/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions/check-conditions-online/for-organisations

/visa-conditions-subsite/Pages/vevo-for-organisations.aspx

0e839e91-62ce-4565-a63b-b1dea014327b

See visa conditions

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions/see-your-visa-conditions

/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions/see-your-visa-conditions

/visa-conditions-subsite/Pages/Conditions-checker.aspx

21ae18b2-f8ac-49ef-8750-6ec167879e94

Conditions list

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions/conditions-list

/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions/conditions-list

/visa-conditions-subsite/Pages/Conditions-list.aspx

63187844-6c39-43c5-b969-a4f1fa9c5d33

Waivers and permissions

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions/waivers-and-permissions

/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions/waivers-and-permissions

/visa-conditions-subsite/Pages/visa-condition-waivers.aspx

63451306-dcac-4b5a-a185-e4042d42d761

Applying for permission to work longer than six months with one employer

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions/waivers-and-permissions/work-longer-than-6-months

/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions/waivers-and-permissions/work-longer-than-6-months

/visa-conditions-subsite/Pages/permission-to-work-longer-than-6-months-with-one-employer.aspx

b8f5906b-db70-4e55-9580-e9ef758c32e0

No further stay waiver

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions/waivers-and-permissions/no-further-stay-waiver

/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions/waivers-and-permissions/no-further-stay-waiver

/visa-conditions-subsite/Pages/no-further-stay-waiver.aspx

a52f8097-aa6a-4f11-8f15-2fb170acaa61

Requesting permission to travel

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions/waivers-and-permissions/requesting-permission-to-travel

/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions/waivers-and-permissions/requesting-permission-to-travel

/visa-conditions-subsite/Pages/seeking-permission-to-travel.aspx

d50607b0-af12-4441-b7ee-7ce5786e92dc

ImmiCard

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/already-have-a-visa/immicard

/visas/already-have-a-visa/immicard

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/immicard/overview.aspx

762867b4-2173-4cf4-99d6-05a8053c00f7

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/already-have-a-visa/immicard/overview

/visas/already-have-a-visa/immicard/overview

904b2720-1ef7-470e-9de9-e94c4aa88b9b

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/already-have-a-visa/immicard/eligibility

/visas/already-have-a-visa/immicard/eligibility

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/immicard/eligibility.aspx

d00f3b87-1cf2-43d6-b589-8be9773ac6b4

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/already-have-a-visa/immicard/step-by-step

/visas/already-have-a-visa/immicard/step-by-step

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/immicard/step-by-step.aspx

4a199648-f47f-406f-9219-3151be236edb

When you have your ImmiCard

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/already-have-a-visa/immicard/when-you-have-your-immicard

/visas/already-have-a-visa/immicard/when-you-have-your-immicard

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/immicard/when-you-have-immicard.aspx

cdefe351-b20f-4202-9ff8-1b384122e4a1

Update details on my ImmiCard, DFTTA or PL056

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/already-have-a-visa/immicard/when-you-have-your-immicard/update-details-on-my-immicard-dftta-or-pl056

/visas/already-have-a-visa/immicard/when-you-have-your-immicard/update-details-on-my-immicard-dftta-or-pl056

/entering-leaving-subsite/Pages/immicard/update-details.aspx

2b34ba4b-5921-4672-8139-eb65abd35afb

Your visa is expiring or has expired

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/visa-about-to-expire

/visas/visa-about-to-expire

/Visa-subsite/Pages/extend-expired-visas/your-visa-is-expiring-or-has-expired.aspx

d5f4111e-0bd1-45ee-8fda-c0fda17645bd

Stay longer

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/visa-about-to-expire/stay-longer

/visas/visa-about-to-expire/stay-longer

/Visa-subsite/Pages/extend-expired-visas/stay-longer.aspx

1a48cb09-e9c4-4b71-9f22-b8f6c65b3df8

Leave Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/visa-about-to-expire/leave-australia

/visas/visa-about-to-expire/leave-australia

/Visa-subsite/Pages/extend-expired-visas/leave-australia.aspx

36413baa-5f23-4cc2-9aaf-6eb70a2e76d1

If you don't have a valid visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/visa-about-to-expire/if-you-dont-have-a-valid-visa

/visas/visa-about-to-expire/if-you-dont-have-a-valid-visa

/Visa-subsite/Pages/extend-expired-visas/if-you-dont-have-a-valid-visa.aspx

2d9a6f9c-a087-47e9-8e4e-653c6bfd3aeb

Status resolution service

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/visa-about-to-expire/status-resolution-service

/visas/visa-about-to-expire/status-resolution-service

/redirect-subsite/Pages/status-resolution-service.aspx

10eee946-cb84-444b-8358-35a4c21cd98a

Permanent resident (PR)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/permanent-resident

ffef6582-be86-4ddd-a356-fef551153d0e

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/permanent-resident/overview

/visas/permanent-resident/overview

de569f18-a857-4b71-83c2-56b524c90a92

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/permanent-resident/entitlements

/visas/permanent-resident/entitlements

521357c1-5e18-4d60-88e6-71344d95d305

Overseas travel as a permanent resident

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/permanent-resident/overseas-travel

/visas/permanent-resident/overseas-travel

/pr/Pages/overseas-travel.aspx

329e54c0-0830-45dd-91c6-e0daf82b65c1

Authority to Return or Return Endorsement

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/permanent-resident/overseas-travel/authority-to-return-or-return-endorsement

/visas/permanent-resident/overseas-travel/authority-to-return-or-return-endorsement

/pr/Pages/authority-to-return-or-return-endorsement.aspx

b59820a7-aa53-4f4b-a675-a592421ca83e

Proof of permanent residence

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/permanent-resident/evidence-of-residency-status

/visas/permanent-resident/evidence-of-residency-status

/pr/Pages/Evidence-of-residency-status.aspx

03aa5d19-6128-4547-9682-31a350930a52

Requesting an electronic record o f your permanent visa – help page

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/permanent-resident/evidence-of-residency-status/request-an-electronic-visa-record

/visas/permanent-resident/evidence-of-residency-status/request-an-electronic-visa-record

/pr/Pages/electronic-visa-record.aspx

63227b09-4141-4288-9042-fee5bd82e0fa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/permanent-resident/visa-options

/visas/permanent-resident/visa-options

/pr/Pages/visa-options.aspx

Visa options for permanent residents

ce012ca8-e50f-4b42-9a0d-997d387d3398

Retirement visa pathway

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/permanent-resident/visa-options/retirement-visa-pathway

/visas/permanent-resident/visa-options/retirement-visa-pathway

/pr/Pages/retirement-visa-pathway.aspx

eef632b0-4544-40c9-b577-3ece16fae40c

Cancelling visas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/cancelling-a-visa

/Visa-subsite/Pages/Cancelling-a-visa.aspx

b4abd3d8-f4a7-4101-984a-260f3967f538

Visa Pricing Estimator

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/visa-pricing-estimator

/visas/visa-pricing-estimator

/Visa-subsite/Pages/visa-pricing-estimator.aspx

fabe71b3-86e8-48b1-a2a9-1e1083e46257

Visa Pricing Estimator - Disclaimer

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/visa-pricing-estimator/disclaimer

/visas/visa-pricing-estimator/disclaimer

/Visa-subsite/Pages/visa-pricing-estimator-disclaimer.aspx

e46f1b3d-7682-4df7-8e30-46072e6ab6bd

Web Evidentiary Tool

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/web-evidentiary-tool

/visas/web-evidentiary-tool

/Visa-subsite/Pages/wet.aspx

ab08195b-391b-4229-913e-35f3cedf175f

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa

/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa

d9eb1fb9-6319-44e9-84d1-e0d4df8c3d9a

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/overview

/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/overview

6a949890-a8c6-4545-9627-b6fc975c6ff4

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/where-to-get-help

/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/where-to-get-help

2e77a981-fc36-49eb-b990-ec945e87a4a6

Help in your language

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/where-to-get-help/help-in-your-language

/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/where-to-get-help/help-in-your-language

/supporting/Pages/Family/help-in-your-language.aspx

e347e742-ce3f-4d14-ae20-85b34803e295

Legal help

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/where-to-get-help/legal-help

/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/where-to-get-help/legal-help

/supporting/Pages/Family/legal-help.aspx

5edde787-2925-49d8-bd83-e4946827fffb

Financial help

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/where-to-get-help/financial-help

/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/where-to-get-help/financial-help

/supporting/Pages/Family/financial-help.aspx

9e330eb5-c6c6-4456-b0ae-618a7e27774e

Counselling services and helplines

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/where-to-get-help/counselling-services-and-helplines

/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/where-to-get-help/counselling-services-and-helplines

/supporting/Pages/Family/counselling-services-and-helplines.aspx

1aad7b67-5ef0-4777-a9ec-ffe2072dcfc7

Types of domestic and family violence

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/where-to-get-help/types-of-domestic-and-family-violence

/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/where-to-get-help/types-of-domestic-and-family-violence

/supporting/Pages/Family/types-of-domestic-and-family-violence.aspx

c77a63a3-d24d-4fc1-970c-7819c9d00ea0

How we can help

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/how-we-can-help

/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/how-we-can-help

3fcc8b15-ca93-440f-b723-435d897cddbd

Family violence provisions

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/family-violence-provisions

/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/family-violence-provisions

/supporting/Pages/Family/family-violence-provisions.aspx

12eb5c4b-b272-4918-87fb-ee3c45dc09e7

Family violence provisions - Partner visa applicants

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/family-violence-provisions/family-violence-provisions-partner-visa-applicants

/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/family-violence-provisions/family-violence-provisions-partner-visa-applicants

/supporting/Pages/Family/family-violence-provisions-partner-visa-applicants.aspx

88db8058-7157-47ab-b5ab-fed538368d45

Family violence provisions - Secondary applicants

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/family-violence-provisions/family-violence-provisions-secondary-applicants

/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/family-violence-provisions/family-violence-provisions-secondary-applicants

/supporting/Pages/Family/family-violence-provisions-secondary-applicants.aspx

7008444c-68ab-46bc-94fb-b65355a2cfe0

Relationship evidence

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/family-violence-provisions/relationship-evidence

/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/family-violence-provisions/relationship-evidence

/supporting/Pages/Family/relationship-evidence.aspx

1c81b511-882c-45ef-b1dd-549c65558f6d

Family violence evidence

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/family-violence-provisions/family-violence-evidence

/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/family-violence-provisions/family-violence-evidence

/supporting/Pages/Family/family-violence-evidence.aspx

50d7577d-eb18-4921-b7bf-d4fde9d67be7

Sponsors of Partner visas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/family-violence-provisions/information-for-partner-visa-sponsors

/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/family-violence-provisions/information-for-partner-visa-sponsors

/supporting/Pages/Family/information-for-partner-visa-sponsors.aspx

6ef27529-a1b7-40aa-aadf-34d0e30b8f9f

Redirect for Types of domestic and family violence

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/family-violence-provisions/types-of-domestic-and-family-violence

/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/family-violence-provisions/types-of-domestic-and-family-violence

/redirect-subsite/Pages/types-of-domestic-and-family-violence.aspx

553c0000-c7a9-40fe-9d7a-0791cab9a424

Contact us

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/contact-us

/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/contact-us

/supporting/Pages/Family/service-providers.aspx

e4a87dfc-8234-47d0-a73d-b7115af93a9b

Domestic and family violence contact form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/contact-us/dfv-contact-form

/visas/domestic-family-violence-and-your-visa/contact-us/dfv-contact-form

/supporting/Pages/dfv-contact-form.aspx

12babd81-1706-4470-9673-f0b897741ca2

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/family-violence-and-your-visa

/visas/family-violence-and-your-visa

359ce376-8e40-436e-8712-0b58f8da1c12

Australian citizenship

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/default.aspx

24035e97-32a3-476d-9692-fa86a98bc676

Learn about Australian citizenship

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/what-does-it-mean

/citizenship/what-does-it-mean

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Learn-about-being-an-Australian.aspx

09c70c9a-9cdd-45e0-821e-b34047701c77

Become an Australian citizen

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/become-a-citizen

/citizenship/become-a-citizen

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/become-a-citizen.aspx

14921f36-9aa7-415a-b89a-7c0d7b7a8c10

Permanent resident or eligible New Zealand

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/become-a-citizen/permanent-resident

/citizenship/become-a-citizen/permanent-resident

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Conferral/Permanent-resident.aspx

778455dd-4f15-4da9-8d46-c41978ec754b

Fee concessions or exemptions

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/become-a-citizen/permanent-resident/fee-concessions-or-exemptions

/citizenship/become-a-citizen/permanent-resident/fee-concessions-or-exemptions

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/fee-concessions-exemptions.aspx

6878b736-c865-4d0d-a2bb-77f984dd9e84

Child under 16 years

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/become-a-citizen/under-16

/citizenship/become-a-citizen/under-16

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Conferral/child-under-16.aspx

68486530-180e-4dab-a48d-4668eb23fe98

Person 60 years or over

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/become-a-citizen/person-60-years-and-over

/citizenship/become-a-citizen/person-60-years-and-over

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Conferral/person-60-years-or-over.aspx

fa7738bb-e755-42c6-8afc-689e654f244a

fee concessions or exemptions

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/become-a-citizen/person-60-years-and-over/fee-concessions-or-exemptions

/citizenship/become-a-citizen/person-60-years-and-over/fee-concessions-or-exemptions

68c0577c-6b5e-4864-bf48-c3102b34bc5c

Citizenship by descent

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/become-a-citizen/by-descent

/citizenship/become-a-citizen/by-descent

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Descent/citizenship-by-descent.aspx

adc73ce6-e1e3-4935-877d-97796f28fb77

International surrogacy arrangements

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/become-a-citizen/by-descent/international-surrogacy-arrangements

/citizenship/become-a-citizen/by-descent/international-surrogacy-arrangements

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Descent/international-surrogacy-arrangements.aspx

f042abd1-1001-4975-a0e5-5a4cf1b05fe1

Become a citizen again

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/become-a-citizen/become-citizen-again

/citizenship/become-a-citizen/become-citizen-again

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/become-an-Australian-again.aspx

5f8cdd33-f61a-4788-83d5-899e7daaad50

Child adopted outside Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/become-a-citizen/child-adopted-outside

/citizenship/become-a-citizen/child-adopted-outside

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Conferral/child-adopted-outside-Australia.aspx

929a985b-6184-4707-b424-e60429156f66

Born to a former Australian citizen

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/become-a-citizen/child-of-former-australian-citizens

/citizenship/become-a-citizen/child-of-former-australian-citizens

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Conferral/child-of-a-former-Australian-citizen.aspx

c0297c37-3184-4234-98cf-f646b0b0fa11

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/become-a-citizen/child-of-former-australian-citizens/fee-concessions-or-exemptions

/citizenship/become-a-citizen/child-of-former-australian-citizens/fee-concessions-or-exemptions

da37b6af-a07f-46f2-9e37-0efb5144f7e6

Person born in PNG

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/become-a-citizen/person-born-in-png

/citizenship/become-a-citizen/person-born-in-png

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Conferral/person-born-in-Papua-before-1975.aspx

54b159e0-ac18-4971-9441-48ba0101dcb6

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/become-a-citizen/person-born-in-png/fee-concessions-or-exemptions

/citizenship/become-a-citizen/person-born-in-png/fee-concessions-or-exemptions

2e6d301c-6300-4e88-90e8-cd0f1f9254ff

Born in Australia and are stateless

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/become-a-citizen/born-in-australia-stateless

/citizenship/become-a-citizen/born-in-australia-stateless

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Conferral/born-in-australia-and-stateless.aspx

ddb477c0-717e-4ce3-87a9-f0b4c9ad80c3

Person with an incapacity or impairment

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/become-a-citizen/person-with-an-incapacity-or-impairment

/citizenship/become-a-citizen/person-with-an-incapacity-or-impairment

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Conferral/person-with-an-incapacity-or-impairment.aspx

6da45b63-f0ff-479f-a0d6-816ca7ff982d

Persons 16 or 17 years of age

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/become-a-citizen/persons-16-or-17

/citizenship/become-a-citizen/persons-16-or-17

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Conferral/persons-16-17-years-of-age.aspx

8f3e7a54-a5ce-45b8-ba4e-269cc5817375

Citizenship test and interview

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/test-and-interview

/citizenship/test-and-interview

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Test-and-interview/Overview.aspx

66094a59-eaf4-47c3-9c53-9911d3be6ad2

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/test-and-interview/overview

/citizenship/test-and-interview/overview

fa0ee8fc-81d4-4a26-a6de-95fc4996ce6c

Learn about the test and interview

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/test-and-interview/learn-about-citizenship-interview-and-test

/citizenship/test-and-interview/learn-about-citizenship-interview-and-test

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Test-and-interview/Citizenship-test-and-interview.aspx

d2982b49-0d64-4f37-bba0-22846c286169

Learn about the citizenship test

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/test-and-interview/learn-about-citizenship-interview-and-test/learn-about-citizenship-test

/citizenship/test-and-interview/learn-about-citizenship-interview-and-test/learn-about-citizenship-test

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Test-and-interview/citizenship-test.aspx

eb8ab119-7049-4511-8dbf-f40f8a387bdb

Learn about the citizenship interview

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/test-and-interview/learn-about-citizenship-interview-and-test/learn-about-citizenship-interview

/citizenship/test-and-interview/learn-about-citizenship-interview-and-test/learn-about-citizenship-interview

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Test-and-interview/learn-about-citizenship-interview.aspx

299092c5-430d-41a6-a28e-3a5802cbde0e

Citizenship test locator

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/test-and-interview/learn-about-citizenship-interview-and-test/citizenship-test-locator

/citizenship/test-and-interview/learn-about-citizenship-interview-and-test/citizenship-test-locator

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Test-and-interview/citizenship-test-locator.aspx

3512ce16-eaa0-4fd7-b8f5-d2e68e98fbe7

Prepare for the test

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/test-and-interview/prepare-for-test

/citizenship/test-and-interview/prepare-for-test

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Test-and-interview/prepare-for-test.aspx

99d586bd-9097-4bb8-b6d1-f76d583d5edd

Practice test

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/test-and-interview/prepare-for-test/practice-test

/citizenship/test-and-interview/prepare-for-test/practice-test

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Test-and-interview/Practice-test.aspx

14343eab-6857-4ebb-9389-a7e3ce838674

Practice test new

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/test-and-interview/prepare-for-test/practice-test-new

/citizenship/test-and-interview/prepare-for-test/practice-test-new

/redirect-subsite/Pages/citizenship-practice-test.aspx

c6d8665c-6a55-4922-8cce-c22e8064a8cd

Read Our Common Bond booklet

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/test-and-interview/our-common-bond

/citizenship/test-and-interview/our-common-bond

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Test-and-interview/Our-Common-Bond.aspx

e8bd57e0-0f25-4efe-84d2-79f498507172

Listen to podcast

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/test-and-interview/listen-to-podcast

/citizenship/test-and-interview/listen-to-podcast

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Test-and-interview/listen-our-common-bond-podcast.aspx

95d6c035-c50c-4306-a414-ba6287f7ce48

Transcript - Episode 1

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/test-and-interview/listen-to-podcast/transcript-episode-1

/citizenship/test-and-interview/listen-to-podcast/transcript-episode-1

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Test-and-interview/transcript-episode1.aspx

96967b3c-d637-4c62-924a-0e7463bce534

Transcript - Episode 2

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/test-and-interview/listen-to-podcast/transcript-episode-2

/citizenship/test-and-interview/listen-to-podcast/transcript-episode-2

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Test-and-interview/transcript-episode2.aspx

79c7b87b-8bc7-4732-8dc9-e15745959ead

Transcript - Episode 3

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/test-and-interview/listen-to-podcast/transcript-episode-3

/citizenship/test-and-interview/listen-to-podcast/transcript-episode-3

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Test-and-interview/transcript-episode3.aspx

12ce3b22-722f-458b-9584-97e50a852acf

Transcript - Episode 4

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/test-and-interview/listen-to-podcast/transcript-episode-4

/citizenship/test-and-interview/listen-to-podcast/transcript-episode-4

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Test-and-interview/transcript-episode4.aspx

b9cbee64-7ed2-4e9f-957d-e4f927289682

Transcript - Episode 5

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/test-and-interview/listen-to-podcast/transcript-episode-5

/citizenship/test-and-interview/listen-to-podcast/transcript-episode-5

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Test-and-interview/transcript-episode5.aspx

821f516f-dab1-4d92-874b-0f3bc69fd588

Citizenship ceremony

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/ceremony

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Ceremony/Citizenship-ceremony.aspx

8947b1aa-46e5-4a48-a65a-e68f46540a52

What is the pledge

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/ceremony/what-is-the-pledge

/citizenship/ceremony/what-is-the-pledge

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Ceremony/australian-citizenship-pledge.aspx

6f348ce0-bc6b-4f41-9b23-b30285e81f88

Australian citizenship affirmation

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/ceremony/affirmation

/citizenship/ceremony/affirmation

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Ceremony/affirmation.aspx

6a9f3fff-a9da-481e-864e-4ee2c90be560

Evidence of citizenship and certificates

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/certificate

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Evidence/evidence-of-citizenship.aspx

e2944d1c-5bc0-40f0-9b5a-2f858015c236

Change a citizenship certificate

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/certificate/correct-details-on-certificate

/citizenship/certificate/correct-details-on-certificate

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Evidence/change-a-citizenship-certificate.aspx

90bda150-da49-4f3d-b979-69a38b73ba23

Get a citizenship certificate

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/certificate/get-a-certificate

/citizenship/certificate/get-a-certificate

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Evidence/get-a-citizenship-certificate.aspx

4eb1ea6c-746d-4db2-b4bb-bd8c1893c970

Replace citizenship evidence after natural disaster

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/certificate/get-a-certificate/natural-disaster

/citizenship/certificate/get-a-certificate/natural-disaster

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Evidence/replace-citizenship-evidence-natural-disaster.aspx

919583b4-95e0-4096-b73b-5daed6b5e910

Request citizenship status of a deceased person

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/certificate/request-status-of-deceased-person

/citizenship/certificate/request-status-of-deceased-person

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Evidence/Request-citizenship-status-of-deceased-person.aspx

ae1f4103-07f7-4d54-a383-ecb5519bcd6b

Check if you are a citizen already

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/check-if-you-a-citizen

/citizenship/check-if-you-a-citizen

/Pages/Work-in-progress.aspx

507d61d9-402f-4c32-8071-3f69f042b0ca

Give up Australian citizenship

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/give-up-citizenship

/citizenship/give-up-citizenship

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/give-up-Australian-citizenship.aspx

5e25d2c4-4da9-460e-adbf-47ed8d4c38a4

Celebrating citizenship

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/celebrating-citizenship

/citizenship/celebrating-citizenship

/citizenship-subsite/anniversary/Pages/overview.aspx

b907eae8-15d7-447a-ab43-a874875ecd9d

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/celebrating-citizenship/overview

/citizenship/celebrating-citizenship/overview

e775b9dc-c67c-4897-9c28-309715db24f4

School citizenship resources

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/celebrating-citizenship/celebrating-australian-citizenship-in-schools

/citizenship/celebrating-citizenship/celebrating-australian-citizenship-in-schools

/citizenship-subsite/anniversary/Pages/celebrating-australian-citizenship-in-schools.aspx

3ec2b227-02da-437b-9324-41c0d3c8785a

History of Australian citizenship

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/celebrating-citizenship/celebrating-australian-citizenship-in-schools/history-of-australian-citizenship

/citizenship/celebrating-citizenship/celebrating-australian-citizenship-in-schools/history-of-australian-citizenship

/citizenship-subsite/anniversary/Pages/citizenship-history.aspx

376dd442-1dcd-4364-935f-f6ecf361f228

Be an active citizen

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/celebrating-citizenship/celebrating-australian-citizenship-in-schools/active-citizen

/citizenship/celebrating-citizenship/celebrating-australian-citizenship-in-schools/active-citizen

/citizenship-subsite/anniversary/Pages/active-citizen.aspx

3f1573b2-6b80-449a-b167-cc24eb778b3d

History version 2

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/celebrating-citizenship/celebrating-australian-citizenship-in-schools/history-version-2

/citizenship/celebrating-citizenship/celebrating-australian-citizenship-in-schools/history-version-2

/citizenship-subsite/anniversary/Pages/History-of-citizenship-version-2.aspx

e9f13e03-bd71-4d27-8292-92b1fc5e06a6

Australian Citizenship Day

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/celebrating-citizenship/australian-citizenship-day

/citizenship/celebrating-citizenship/australian-citizenship-day

/citizenship-subsite/anniversary/Pages/citizenship-day.aspx

9a3cd8ee-3bdb-460c-89c1-17ecaaa0e601

Ordering citizenship products

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/celebrating-citizenship/australian-citizenship-day/ordering-citizenship-products

/citizenship/celebrating-citizenship/australian-citizenship-day/ordering-citizenship-products

/citizenship-subsite/anniversary/Pages/ordering-citizenship-products.aspx

ccdefab2-f8bc-433b-8a72-351ff5f597a9

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/celebrating-citizenship/active-citizen

/citizenship/celebrating-citizenship/active-citizen

258282bc-7785-4fc4-a819-a82ea66c820a

Citizenship stories

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/celebrating-citizenship/citizenship-stories

/citizenship/celebrating-citizenship/citizenship-stories

/citizenship-subsite/anniversary/Pages/citizenship-stories.aspx

040f4f7e-6a63-461e-9066-14f795e58221

Citizenship processing times

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/citizenship-processing-times

/citizenship/citizenship-processing-times

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/citizenship-processing-times.aspx

753682f7-8a8e-4991-a80c-e3e1be439c45

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/citizenship-processing-times/overview

/citizenship/citizenship-processing-times/overview

4bcd10ba-0369-48f4-995b-77cb39f2e160

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/citizenship-processing-times/citizenship-processing-times

/citizenship/citizenship-processing-times/citizenship-processing-times

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/processing-times.aspx

5477eceb-2ac5-4817-bf1e-aa14348216c1

Ceremony wait times

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/citizenship-processing-times/ceremony-wait-times

/citizenship/citizenship-processing-times/ceremony-wait-times

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/ceremony-wait-times.aspx

c95590e4-3e97-471e-88d3-2239e60ec4ba

Confirming Australian Citizenship

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/confirming-australian-citizenship

/citizenship/confirming-australian-citizenship

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/confirming-australian-citizenship.aspx

7fae223e-2367-4ee6-a6fa-3f84c7c89771

Our Common Bond

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/our-common-bond

/citizenship/our-common-bond

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/our common bond/overview.aspx

d18835aa-eac5-4710-9b52-37924e92ba4c

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/our-common-bond/overview

/citizenship/our-common-bond/overview

65ab2515-aa7e-4d14-9e6b-a355abb34af0

Welcome message

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/our-common-bond/welcome-message

/citizenship/our-common-bond/welcome-message

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/our common bond/welome-message.aspx

cd035e12-50a8-44c1-b3b3-7e9887aaefbd

Testable section

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/our-common-bond/testable-section

/citizenship/our-common-bond/testable-section

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/our common bond/testable.aspx

45ee2f8a-66b1-4aba-9c0d-ef4745302081

Part 1 - Australia and its people

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/our-common-bond/testable-section/part-1

/citizenship/our-common-bond/testable-section/part-1

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/our common bond/part-1.aspx

b2bd32ff-5f65-46e8-82e5-d7ecf613e942

Part 2 - Australia's democratic beliefs, rights and liberties

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/our-common-bond/testable-section/part-2

/citizenship/our-common-bond/testable-section/part-2

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/our common bond/part-2.aspx

33414142-9b9e-4023-95d0-5b56c9628dd7

Part 3 - Government and the law in Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/our-common-bond/testable-section/part-3

/citizenship/our-common-bond/testable-section/part-3

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/our common bond/part-3.aspx

53328561-6d91-4e5f-90e8-13d797a72947

Part 4 - Australian Values

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/our-common-bond/testable-section/part-4

/citizenship/our-common-bond/testable-section/part-4

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/our common bond/part-4.aspx

e275d8cf-c03f-4c9c-ae6d-167c6d0bd08a

Practice test questions

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/our-common-bond/testable-section/practice-test-questions

/citizenship/our-common-bond/testable-section/practice-test-questions

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/our common bond/practice-questions.aspx

595b145b-dde3-4698-9505-d137fc49f6c7

Glossary of testable section

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/our-common-bond/testable-section/glossary-of-testable-section

/citizenship/our-common-bond/testable-section/glossary-of-testable-section

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/our common bond/glossary-testable.aspx

892184bf-a37d-4be2-ac79-da453382955e

Citizenship practice test

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/our-common-bond/testable-section/citizenship-practice-test

/citizenship/our-common-bond/testable-section/citizenship-practice-test

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/our common bond/Practice-test-post-july.aspx

9ed63b59-1f0e-46c5-ae18-f33a3ce57b56

Non-testable section

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/our-common-bond/non-testable-section

/citizenship/our-common-bond/non-testable-section

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/our common bond/non-testable.aspx

1e0cb70f-a978-486f-8f2f-8dab169e9084

Part 5 - Australia today

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/our-common-bond/non-testable-section/part-5

/citizenship/our-common-bond/non-testable-section/part-5

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/our common bond/part-5.aspx

3d7a042a-5354-484c-8c25-73669b857962

Part 6 - Our Australian story

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/our-common-bond/non-testable-section/part-6

/citizenship/our-common-bond/non-testable-section/part-6

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/our common bond/part-6.aspx

7ba5e7e5-73b1-4f2b-bbf7-2580edf8b366

Glossary of non-testable section

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/our-common-bond/non-testable-section/glossary-of-non-testable-section

/citizenship/our-common-bond/non-testable-section/glossary-of-non-testable-section

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/our common bond/glossary-non-testable.aspx

7dae1f92-af3d-4168-b631-18a830a756dd

Further information

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/our-common-bond/further-information

/citizenship/our-common-bond/further-information

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/our common bond/further-information.aspx

0428a0e3-4d8d-4a5b-8ddd-84df27505b48

Photo requirements for citizenship applications

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenship/photo-requirements-for-citizenship-applications

/citizenship/photo-requirements-for-citizenship-applications

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/photo-requirements-citizenship-applications.aspx

3556ddb8-2662-4674-a278-f16f1fea4815

Change in your situation

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/change-in-situation

/changes-situation-subsite/Pages/Changes-in-situation.aspx

cc557bc3-6807-4119-b873-20e2bc87a2ff

Your contact details have changed

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/change-in-situation/contact-details

/change-in-situation/contact-details

/changes-situation-subsite/Pages/Your-contact-details-have-changed.aspx

30268ca9-3aee-459b-abc2-69d07de67940

You had a baby

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/change-in-situation/had-a-baby

/change-in-situation/had-a-baby

/changes-situation-subsite/Pages/you-had-a-baby/You-had-a-baby.aspx

de09fcb4-3b1c-46b5-a947-dc696ff80280

Add baby

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/change-in-situation/had-a-baby/add-baby

/change-in-situation/had-a-baby/add-baby

/form-listing/Pages/add-baby-subclass-visa.aspx

7e70ab15-7cf3-482a-956c-e06a5e6c9e3b

Your passport details have changed

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/change-in-situation/passport-details

/change-in-situation/passport-details

/changes-situation-subsite/Pages/Your-passport-details-have-changed.aspx

d7ec1e96-71a1-422d-b81d-89828e92e17a

Your study situation has changed

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/change-in-situation/study-situation

/change-in-situation/study-situation

/changes-situation-subsite/Pages/Your study situation has changed/Your-study-situation-has-changed.aspx

7092945b-2dd7-46d8-9aea-131407c67a9b

Study assessment

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/change-in-situation/study-situation/study-assessment

/change-in-situation/study-situation/study-assessment

/form-listing/Pages/visa-condition-change-study-assessment.aspx

11348b7b-7052-4848-a463-153d64c28639

Welfare arrangements

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/change-in-situation/study-situation/welfare-arrangements

/change-in-situation/study-situation/welfare-arrangements

/form-listing/Pages/request-for-approval-of-alternative-welfare-arrangements.aspx

71f34152-17fc-485f-a252-dc39c0d0c0ef

Your job situation has changed

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/change-in-situation/job-situation

/change-in-situation/job-situation

/changes-situation-subsite/Pages/Your job situation has changed/Your-job-situation-has-changed.aspx

9a352526-a5c3-4091-8a2c-a42ecc8e2074

Your relationship has ended

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/change-in-situation/relationship-ended

/change-in-situation/relationship-ended

/changes-situation-subsite/Pages/Relationship has ended/Your-relationship-has-ended.aspx

eec0c75f-14cd-41ec-956f-b6c9f85ffe95

Someone in your family has died

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/change-in-situation/death-in-family

/change-in-situation/death-in-family

/changes-situation-subsite/Pages/Someone in your family died/Someone-in-your-family-died.aspx

105bf8c5-58f2-4715-9a83-c0f44a5cbb36

Withdraw visa application

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/change-in-situation/withdraw-visa-application

/change-in-situation/withdraw-visa-application

/changes-situation-subsite/Pages/You-want-to-withdraw-a-visa-application.aspx

bda621f4-c3cf-4156-9ba5-88b99ab133ad

You want a refund

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/change-in-situation/get-a-refund

/change-in-situation/get-a-refund

/changes-situation-subsite/Pages/You-want-a-refund.aspx

5af24cfa-ebcb-41b0-b305-f3acd5456fb1

New Passport Details

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/change-in-situation/new-passport-details

/change-in-situation/new-passport-details

/form-listing/Pages/new-passport-details.aspx

afc11e76-e3a7-4ee5-aefc-7f97ef601f28

What we do

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do

/programs-subsite/Pages/what-we-do.aspx

3e3897fa-362b-4488-a5bb-074520e80875

The Administration of the Immigration and Citizenship Program

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/the-administration-of-the-immigration-program

/what-we-do/the-administration-of-the-immigration-program

/programs-subsite/Pages/administration-immigration-program.aspx

Administration of the Immigration Program

141fab96-59c3-4ebf-a0ad-8c89615953ad

Education program

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/education-program

/what-we-do/education-program

/programs-subsite/Pages/education-program-overview.aspx

4a0b631d-48d5-441b-9c49-21b599329803

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/education-program/overview

/what-we-do/education-program/overview

108f9204-f25a-43c3-9609-24d0d7b0e718

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/education-program/what-we-do

/what-we-do/education-program/what-we-do

/programs-subsite/Pages/education-program-what-we-do.aspx

866e5e82-a898-4a0d-916b-f8c36d63b6c9

Simplified student visa framework

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/education-program/what-we-do/simplified-student-visa-framework

/what-we-do/education-program/what-we-do/simplified-student-visa-framework

/programs-subsite/Pages/education-program-simplified-student-visa-framework.aspx

ee330e53-0423-408e-b2fa-99be41536a00

Evidence framework

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/education-program/what-we-do/evidence-framework

/what-we-do/education-program/what-we-do/evidence-framework

/programs-subsite/Pages/education-program-evidence-framework.aspx

a4535674-a1cb-4d6f-8230-929808e8d3c5

Evidence levels

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/education-program/what-we-do/evidence-levels

/what-we-do/education-program/what-we-do/evidence-levels

/programs-subsite/Pages/education-program-evidence-levels.aspx

c15f2f46-b98b-4f95-8ff9-c2e78a7b5d5d

For education providers

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/education-program/providers

/what-we-do/education-program/providers

/programs-subsite/Pages/education-program-provider.aspx

8523c396-45cd-4188-8fb1-d28d74680d17

Education provider responsibilities

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/education-program/providers/responsibilities

/what-we-do/education-program/providers/responsibilities

/programs-subsite/Pages/education-program-provider-responsibilities.aspx

1a80455f-b92a-42d0-b050-fa01cef8569d

International students and exchange programs

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/education-program/providers/students-on-exchange

/what-we-do/education-program/providers/students-on-exchange

/programs-subsite/Pages/education-program-student-exchange.aspx

40148046-1547-4291-a7ba-8a6143097f0f

Welfare arrangement

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/education-program/providers/welfare-arrangement

/what-we-do/education-program/providers/welfare-arrangement

/programs-subsite/Pages/education-program-welfare.aspx

11f8ae71-ee2e-45e9-802e-a222acdfcaff

Section 97 of the ESOS Act

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/education-program/providers/section-97-of-the-esos-act

/what-we-do/education-program/providers/section-97-of-the-esos-act

/programs-subsite/Pages/section-97-esos-act.aspx

ea7ad565-78bb-4838-8ed1-b546f334bb8a

Education provider report

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/education-program/education-provider-report

/what-we-do/education-program/education-provider-report

/programs-subsite/Pages/education-program-provider-report.aspx

819781a6-9991-474c-9dd1-4822dfbbfef6

Education provider updates

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/education-program/education-provider-updates

/what-we-do/education-program/education-provider-updates

/programs-subsite/Pages/education-provider-updates.aspx

8c62e550-8919-4683-839c-8cfcd06d431b

August 2022

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/education-program/education-provider-updates/august-2022

/what-we-do/education-program/education-provider-updates/august-2022

/programs-subsite/Pages/education-provider-updates/august-2022.aspx

78215c1c-7899-4bf5-88dc-a5ba0fe0ded2

July 2022

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/education-program/education-provider-updates/july-2022

/what-we-do/education-program/education-provider-updates/july-2022

/programs-subsite/Pages/education-provider-updates/july-2022.aspx

3af4952e-2a74-4b8a-990d-4a493514a23e

Immigration reform

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/immigration-reform

/what-we-do/immigration-reform

/immigration-reform-subsite/Pages/overview.aspx

c2cae5a3-59f4-40ce-a551-a80758dc66fc

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/immigration-reform/overview

/what-we-do/immigration-reform/overview

fb2e5bb5-9ff1-49d2-9e83-621cda24d0ac

About the reform

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/immigration-reform/about-the-reform

/what-we-do/immigration-reform/about-the-reform

/immigration-reform-subsite/Pages/about.aspx

2ee9d5fe-9de8-4566-8089-b3d3ec01012c

Consultation

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/immigration-reform/consultation

/what-we-do/immigration-reform/consultation

/immigration-reform-subsite/Pages/consultation.aspx

85a3082c-c94f-4425-a6a4-6ef273e6e52b

Market consultation paper

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/immigration-reform/consultation/market-consultation-paper

/what-we-do/immigration-reform/consultation/market-consultation-paper

/immigration-reform-subsite/Pages/market-consultation-paper.aspx

1f6c67d8-d406-4cdf-9c28-e4078a416bc8

Policy consultation paper

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/immigration-reform/consultation/policy-consultation-paper

/what-we-do/immigration-reform/consultation/policy-consultation-paper

/immigration-reform-subsite/Pages/policy-consultation-paper.aspx

3f537239-60a0-48a0-a080-2410e3e56b8b

Videos

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/immigration-reform/consultation/videos

/what-we-do/immigration-reform/consultation/videos

/immigration-reform-subsite/Pages/videos.aspx

225758d3-c1b7-4b71-9467-6d788bec33c0

Submissions

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/immigration-reform/submissions

/what-we-do/immigration-reform/submissions

/immigration-reform-subsite/Pages/submissions.aspx

1e4078cf-e979-4883-a5cd-485f83a770ea

Permanent Migration Program planning levels

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/migration-program-planning-levels

/what-we-do/migration-program-planning-levels

/programs-subsite/Pages/Migration-program-planning-levels.aspx

5fe681b2-6649-4d0d-9faa-8687cc7741d2

Refugee and humanitarian program

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program

/refugee-and-humanitarian/Pages/Ref-and-hum-program.aspx

e9fbe19f-5c08-43ce-b78c-49df76c7fef8

About the program

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program

/refugee-and-humanitarian/Pages/Ref-and-hum-program/Overview.aspx

87db8639-e7fb-47f2-bb7f-225343ad9c1e

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/overview

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/overview

5d29e672-157c-4cd0-8292-333b1f3e6150

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/about-the-program

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/about-the-program

/refugee-and-humanitarian/Pages/Ref-and-hum-program/About-the-program.aspx

a8be175c-6062-4741-9c25-e8304a18ed41

Australian Refugee Advisory Panel

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/about-the-program/australian-refugee-advisory-panel

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/about-the-program/australian-refugee-advisory-panel

/refugee-and-humanitarian/Pages/Ref-and-hum-program/australian-refugee-advisory-panel.aspx

65a4a724-c7c5-4d01-8795-ca825444d253

Resettle in Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/resettle-in-australia

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/resettle-in-australia

/refugee-and-humanitarian/Pages/Ref-and-hum-program/Resettle-in-australia.aspx

3c2debfc-2c42-4836-b6dd-2115aecb156f

Seek protection in Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/seek-protection-in-australia

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/seek-protection-in-australia

/refugee-and-humanitarian/Pages/Ref-and-hum-program/Get-protection-after-arriving.aspx

24354863-235d-4131-97cd-ead87d193024

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/seek-protection-in-australia/australia-protection-obligations

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/seek-protection-in-australia/australia-protection-obligations

2b81ee3c-29b8-4efc-91a2-4a93048e1344

Entered Australia via Ashmore Islands

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/seek-protection-in-australia/entered-australia-via-ashmore-islands

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/seek-protection-in-australia/entered-australia-via-ashmore-islands

/refugee-and-humanitarian/Pages/Ref-and-hum-program/dbb16-judgment-ashmore-island-matters.aspx

825326bc-9c6f-4ae7-9c89-0d3f92d13917

Important Protection visa information

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/seek-protection-in-australia/important-protection-visa-information

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/seek-protection-in-australia/important-protection-visa-information

/refugee-and-humanitarian/Pages/Ref-and-hum-program/important-protection-visa-info.aspx

82886e9d-68fe-45b8-b92a-0fa5b3ca3583

Refugee Week

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/refugee-week

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/refugee-week

/refugee-and-humanitarian/Pages/Ref-and-hum-program/stories.aspx

439e439a-3b36-4d0b-9ef9-8a4bca9775b2

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/success-stories

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/success-stories

/refugee-and-humanitarian/Pages/Ref-and-hum-program/Success-stories.aspx

5f8a7d09-cce3-4d48-ae50-0eccec5fe8a8

Refugee week videos

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/success-stories/refugee-week-videos

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/about-the-program/success-stories/refugee-week-videos

/refugee-and-humanitarian/Pages/Ref-and-hum-program/refugee-week-videos.aspx

5148f4ca-3992-40d1-a466-c069ffcf1bc3

Protection visas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/onshore-protection

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/onshore-protection

/refugee-and-humanitarian/Pages/Onshore-protection.aspx

83642b90-e03e-4d68-9989-9d723f5a5a42

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/onshore-protection/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/onshore-protection/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev

a22c1328-85d8-45a1-8053-e64c8248a0a3

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/onshore-protection/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/overview

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/onshore-protection/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/overview

3a9a7d68-d31e-4174-95c7-51344ddd806a

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/onshore-protection/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/information-for-tpv-and-shev-holders

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/onshore-protection/applying-for-a-subsequent-tpv-or-shev/information-for-tpv-and-shev-holders

c7a2ccc2-651b-40ed-a5d8-44461188c02d

Your protection visa has been refused or cancelled

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/onshore-protection/protection-visa-cancelled

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/onshore-protection/protection-visa-cancelled

/refugee-and-humanitarian/Pages/Refused-a-protection-visa.aspx

c8136c6d-3957-4f2c-b6ad-574bf1f5c636

Refugee visas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/refugee-visas

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/refugee-visas

/refugee-and-humanitarian/Pages/Refugee-visas.aspx

3381c05d-0c2f-4fc9-afba-c1a36e5514ca

The community support program (CSP)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/community-support-program

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/community-support-program

/refugee-and-humanitarian/Pages/community-support-program/Overview.aspx

f33b6a89-24da-4edc-b073-d04bce6538be

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/community-support-program/overview

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/community-support-program/overview

b4a4fc16-7a3e-433c-95fa-c186d1b0d42d

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/community-support-program/how-to-apply

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/community-support-program/how-to-apply

/refugee-and-humanitarian/Pages/community-support-program/apply.aspx

054a21d5-ca36-4a2b-9b2e-aa0d93999cd4

Employ someone in need

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/community-support-program/employing-someone

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/community-support-program/employing-someone

/refugee-and-humanitarian/Pages/community-support-program/employ-someone.aspx

13549f1b-a30e-4771-96ec-31c2a599f801

Approved Proposing Organisations

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/community-support-program/approved-proposing-organisations

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/community-support-program/approved-proposing-organisations

/refugee-and-humanitarian/Pages/community-support-program/approved-proposing-organisations.aspx

716c2a78-b40c-4bb9-8d65-3e29bf42d406

How you can help

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/community-support-program/how-can-you-help

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/community-support-program/how-can-you-help

/refugee-and-humanitarian/Pages/community-support-program/support-someone.aspx

85e55de7-426f-44e0-b2aa-5f27161cc1f2

The Special Humanitarian Program (SHP)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/the-special-humanitarian-program

/what-we-do/refugee-and-humanitarian-program/the-special-humanitarian-program

/refugee-and-humanitarian/Pages/The-special-humanitarian-program.aspx

95062219-a6fc-490a-806b-4d54dc7672c2

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/regional-migration

/what-we-do/regional-migration

/redirect-subsite/Pages/working-regional-area.aspx

228dc6e3-2146-4eed-9de5-f947b47717a8

Eligible regional areas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/regional-migration/eligible-regional-areas

/what-we-do/regional-migration/eligible-regional-areas

/redirect-subsite/Pages/eligible-regional-areas.aspx

d558ff7e-0eef-4233-b9b5-b98958a85c0b

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/regional-migration/employ-or-sponsor-someone

/what-we-do/regional-migration/employ-or-sponsor-someone

/redirect-subsite/Pages/rm-employ-sponsor.aspx

dc95eb4d-39ad-4725-aada-ea9a2cfe7c7d

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/regional-migration/occupations

/what-we-do/regional-migration/occupations

/redirect-subsite/Pages/regional-migration-occupations.aspx

509d1584-a5ff-4ad5-be68-13b340227a46

Regional communities

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/regional-migration/regional-communities

/what-we-do/regional-migration/regional-communities

/redirect-subsite/Pages/regional-communities.aspx

0be5f4f9-3030-45b7-a1c2-255e17b16dde

Working in a regional area

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/regional-migration/working-in-a-regional-area

/what-we-do/regional-migration/working-in-a-regional-area

7a7eb47d-18d4-4c92-b595-d159b2ad51d4

Regional migration initiative

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/regional-migration-initiative

/what-we-do/regional-migration-initiative

/regional/Pages/Overview.aspx

32e77326-70b5-4265-8d9c-b56a1c0a9fd4

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/regional-migration-initiative/overview

/what-we-do/regional-migration-initiative/overview

724250a7-53e1-47dd-9c69-04151924b99c

Regional migration news

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/regional-migration-initiative/regional-migration-news

/what-we-do/regional-migration-initiative/regional-migration-news

/regional/Pages/About-the-initiative.aspx

d8db3adb-ee4f-4d42-b3f9-7bee996798af

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/regional-migration-initiative/regional-migration-news/regional-post-codes

/what-we-do/regional-migration-initiative/regional-migration-news/regional-post-codes

/regional/Pages/regional-post-codes.aspx

75b34c11-4b66-4aa6-9e54-8e0a534b8f87

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/regional-migration-initiative/regional-migration-news/visa-options

/what-we-do/regional-migration-initiative/regional-migration-news/visa-options

/regional/Pages/visa-options.aspx

3898e926-ea0e-40e6-a04c-88b8ed4d42fa

For employers and sponsors

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/regional-migration-initiative/for-employers-and-sponsors

/what-we-do/regional-migration-initiative/for-employers-and-sponsors

/regional/Pages/For-employers-and-sponsors.aspx

f876b3f1-7ae7-4290-8e23-d32a1e64b1c2

For migrants and temporary workers

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/regional-migration-initiative/skilled-migrants-and-temporary-workers

/what-we-do/regional-migration-initiative/skilled-migrants-and-temporary-workers

/regional/Pages/For-skilled-migrants.aspx

31ac2141-7027-44ee-bfbb-52d9392fbaba

For regional communities

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/regional-migration-initiative/for-regional-communities

/what-we-do/regional-migration-initiative/for-regional-communities

/regional/Pages/For-regional-communities.aspx

fa7aeff3-8043-4c24-a3bd-48a30bc576ff

Skilled migration program

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program

/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program

/programs-subsite/Pages/Skilled-migration-program/overview.aspx

bc446369-66e5-49c5-903c-819cd6c9b22b

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program/overview

/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program/overview

78848db9-4e7b-40e5-b774-34be3cf4040e

Visa Options

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program/visa-options

/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program/visa-options

/programs-subsite/Pages/skilled-migration-program/visa-options.aspx

52937e3d-9a90-47a3-b7b8-a27d8dead292

Legislative instruments

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program/visa-options/legislative-instruments

/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program/visa-options/legislative-instruments

/work-in-australia/Pages/Legislative-instruments.aspx

e662b618-45e4-4c5e-b936-e3283bda9acd

Processing Skilled Visas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program/processing-skilled-visas

/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program/processing-skilled-visas

/programs-subsite/Pages/skilled-migration-program/processing-skilled-visas.aspx

cb9b88ea-5665-400d-9a42-e5979c51a314

In Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program/in-australia

/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program/in-australia

/programs-subsite/Pages/skilled-migration-program/in-australia.aspx

bf2f9bad-21e6-4c3e-9aa3-9b175b129953

Recent changes

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program/recent-changes

/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program/recent-changes

/programs-subsite/Pages/skilled-migration-program/recent-changes.aspx

0139861c-3058-4ef4-80ca-4f80756d60f7

Changes to the Minister of Religion Labour Agreement

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program/recent-changes/changes-to-the-minister-of-religion-labour-agreement

/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program/recent-changes/changes-to-the-minister-of-religion-labour-agreement

/programs-subsite/Pages/skilled-migration-program/changes-to-the-minister-of-religion-labour-agreement.aspx

e4ec4180-c7ea-4ea1-908e-db41d63c1494

New Aged Care Industry Labour Agreement

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program/recent-changes/new-aged-care-industry-labour-agreement

/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program/recent-changes/new-aged-care-industry-labour-agreement

/programs-subsite/Pages/skilled-migration-program/new-aged-care-industry-labour-agreement.aspx

e1fe9c2d-2942-4e95-84f1-2b2dce7b5246

New Horticulture Industry Labour Agreement

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program/recent-changes/new-horticulture-industry-labour-agreement

/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program/recent-changes/new-horticulture-industry-labour-agreement

/programs-subsite/Pages/skilled-migration-program/new-horticulture-industry-labour-agreement.aspx

52e09fef-15e6-4e1b-ae98-ad872a9430a9

Temporary arrangements for hotel and accommodation industry

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program/recent-changes/temp-arrangements-hotel-accom-industry

/what-we-do/skilled-migration-program/recent-changes/temp-arrangements-hotel-accom-industry

/programs-subsite/Pages/skilled-migration-program/temporary-labour-agreements-hotel-accom.aspx

f4d98502-3b92-4919-aa77-e75a811da87a

Status Resolution Service

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/status-resolution-service

/what-we-do/status-resolution-service

/status-res/Pages/Overview.aspx

1f2026b6-1789-4042-b39a-a838ec44ac5a

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/status-resolution-service/overview

/what-we-do/status-resolution-service/overview

4edcf516-e3a3-4dd6-b724-b79e499d31a1

Status Resolution Support Services

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/status-resolution-service/status-resolution-support-services

/what-we-do/status-resolution-service/status-resolution-support-services

/status-res/Pages/Status-resolution-support-services.aspx

e862b68b-5707-42cf-b87c-d7ea3b93b42e

Help to leave Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/status-resolution-service/help-to-leave

/what-we-do/status-resolution-service/help-to-leave

/status-res/Pages/Help-to-leave.aspx

d408ca05-5bd4-4fcc-8971-9b55afa0f331

Ministerial intervention

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/status-resolution-service/ministerial-intervention

/what-we-do/status-resolution-service/ministerial-intervention

/status-res/Pages/Ministerial intervention.aspx

8d8eeccb-562c-4b80-8237-38e8e0811ba0

How we assess ministerial intervention requests

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/status-resolution-service/ministerial-intervention/how-we-assess

/what-we-do/status-resolution-service/ministerial-intervention/how-we-assess

/status-res/Pages/how-we-assess-ministerial-intervention-requests.aspx

eda6a64d-e1d8-4306-8f8d-d58b20330252

After you request ministerial intervention

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/status-resolution-service/ministerial-intervention/after-you-request-ministerial-intervention

/what-we-do/status-resolution-service/ministerial-intervention/after-you-request-ministerial-intervention

/status-res/Pages/after-you-request-ministerial-intervention.aspx

149e6fdf-81ef-4cfa-a217-1ba696cb6e70

Meet with us

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/status-resolution-service/meet-with-us

/what-we-do/status-resolution-service/meet-with-us

/status-res/Pages/meet-with-us.aspx

ce82a1bd-4c8c-49a6-af47-0423e2a76265

Translated products

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/status-resolution-service/meet-with-us/translated-products

/what-we-do/status-resolution-service/meet-with-us/translated-products

/status-res/Pages/translated-products.aspx

f73ad3f0-6592-49db-99cb-9199abe4eb9d

Unaccompanied humanitarian minors program

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/uhm-program

/programs-subsite/Pages/unaccompanied-humanitarian-minors.aspx

e6e64fba-e8a6-45f9-bdd3-05ea1129f168

Working Holiday Maker (WHM) program

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/whm-program

/programs-subsite/Pages/working-holiday-maker/overview.aspx

eb424ab9-7fc4-4626-8e2e-26573a817c32

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/whm-program/overview

/what-we-do/whm-program/overview

10b5e082-4d08-48a4-9769-d065b2a650c2

Status of country caps

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/whm-program/status-of-country-caps

/what-we-do/whm-program/status-of-country-caps

/programs-subsite/Pages/working-holiday-maker/status-of-country-caps.aspx

296113a9-b0f5-4d63-b3c7-c3390dae6ab9

Specified work and conditions

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/whm-program/specified-work-conditions

/what-we-do/whm-program/specified-work-conditions

/programs-subsite/Pages/working-holiday-maker/work-conditions.aspx

660c0dd1-58ea-42a4-b193-6362b83f82c7

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/whm-program/specified-work-conditions/6-month-work-limitation

/what-we-do/whm-program/specified-work-conditions/6-month-work-limitation

654f1553-664d-4371-9ac7-5c71977afa70

Specified subclass 417 work

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/whm-program/specified-work-conditions/specified-work-417

/what-we-do/whm-program/specified-work-conditions/specified-work-417

d2eafc3a-cbc7-4eb3-8991-4cdd6cd6443e

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/whm-program/specified-work-conditions/specified-work-462

/what-we-do/whm-program/specified-work-conditions/specified-work-462

f161f374-6a52-48b6-8bb9-840851f401be

Same Employer Time Extension

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/whm-program/specified-work-conditions/WHM-condition-8547-permission-request-form

/what-we-do/whm-program/specified-work-conditions/WHM-condition-8547-permission-request-form

/form-listing/Pages/whm-permission-same-employer.aspx

d138178e-626b-4395-a508-18109ec4b586

Working holidays for Australians

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/whm-program/working-holidays-for-australians

/what-we-do/whm-program/working-holidays-for-australians

/programs-subsite/Pages/working-holiday-maker/for-australians.aspx

9fc41e35-2405-438b-9b9c-45b9a861ce36

Reciprocal Working Holiday arrangements

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/whm-program/working-holidays-for-australians/working-holidays

/what-we-do/whm-program/working-holidays-for-australians/working-holidays

/programs-subsite/Pages/working-holiday-maker/working-holidays.aspx

37c26ef2-f14f-4128-9647-0e2028e01d83

Reciprocal Work and Holiday arrangements

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/whm-program/working-holidays-for-australians/work-and-holidays

/what-we-do/whm-program/working-holidays-for-australians/work-and-holidays

/programs-subsite/Pages/working-holiday-maker/work-holidays-other-USA.aspx

9a803fa9-7db4-4e68-b093-d3e263ba606a

Letter of support

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/whm-program/working-holidays-for-australians/letter-of-support

/what-we-do/whm-program/working-holidays-for-australians/letter-of-support

/programs-subsite/Pages/working-holiday-maker/letter-of-support.aspx

c9a0fad1-0c64-4f93-ae11-f763f844a830

WHM letter of support request form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/whm-program/working-holidays-for-australians/letter-of-support/whm-letter-of-support-request-form

/what-we-do/whm-program/working-holidays-for-australians/letter-of-support/whm-letter-of-support-request-form

/form-listing/Pages/whm-letter-of-support-request-form.aspx

20d51283-c8d8-453b-8028-275035c36724

Latest news

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/whm-program/latest-news

/what-we-do/whm-program/latest-news

/programs-subsite/Pages/working-holiday-maker/latest-news.aspx

e5587978-f662-4815-b481-8b07a5ced991

New WHM arrangements for UK passport holders

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/whm-program/latest-news/arrangements-uk-passport-holders

/what-we-do/whm-program/latest-news/arrangements-uk-passport-holders

/programs-subsite/Pages/working-holiday-maker/latest-news/arrangements-for-uk-passport-holders.aspx

1aad6f26-d75d-44c2-bf6e-ddd3a16479d6

New Work and Holiday (subclass 462) visa pre-application process

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/whm-program/latest-news/new-work-and-holiday-subclass-462-visa-pre-application-process

/what-we-do/whm-program/latest-news/new-work-and-holiday-subclass-462-visa-pre-application-process

/programs-subsite/Pages/working-holiday-maker/latest-news/new-work-and-holiday-462-visa-preapplication-process.aspx

330e65da-dc53-424b-a311-a9360f0b899f

Family migration program

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/family-migration-program

/what-we-do/family-migration-program

/programs-subsite/Pages/family-migration/overview.aspx

75084e8d-f2c5-4828-a739-c0245fc98a99

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/family-migration-program/overview

/what-we-do/family-migration-program/overview

8257835a-272d-4ab4-a0b2-db71626ee0e4

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/family-migration-program/visa-options

/what-we-do/family-migration-program/visa-options

/programs-subsite/Pages/family-migration/visa-options.aspx

56e11a91-d015-4241-bfeb-555a841fc884

About partner visas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/family-migration-program/visa-options/about-partner-visas

/what-we-do/family-migration-program/visa-options/about-partner-visas

/programs-subsite/Pages/family-migration/about-partner-visas.aspx

b2cc558f-6d7d-44f1-a383-71a602a068e0

About parent visas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/family-migration-program/visa-options/about-parent-visas

/what-we-do/family-migration-program/visa-options/about-parent-visas

/programs-subsite/Pages/family-migration/about-parent-visas.aspx

13b474f3-d10c-465f-977d-bc3ac462f893

About child visas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/family-migration-program/visa-options/about-child-visas

/what-we-do/family-migration-program/visa-options/about-child-visas

/programs-subsite/Pages/family-migration/about-child-visas.aspx

60636375-3d26-4cdf-8cc2-afc896c71556

About other family visas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/family-migration-program/visa-options/about-other-family-visas

/what-we-do/family-migration-program/visa-options/about-other-family-visas

/programs-subsite/Pages/family-migration/about-other-family-visas.aspx

14da890a-679c-4f21-ad9d-81e68cbb96d3

Processing family visas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/family-migration-program/processing-family-visas

/what-we-do/family-migration-program/processing-family-visas

/programs-subsite/Pages/family-migration/processing-family-visas.aspx

19e8c20a-7021-443d-8ae2-85bd8c7d965d

Support once you are in Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/family-migration-program/support-once-you-are-in-australia

/what-we-do/family-migration-program/support-once-you-are-in-australia

/programs-subsite/Pages/family-migration/support-once-you-are-in-australia.aspx

f0fb13b7-8238-4bf4-be54-cfe6e03b9d8b

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/family-migration-program/latest-news

/what-we-do/family-migration-program/latest-news

/programs-subsite/Pages/family-migration/latest-news.aspx

7732cd36-e8f1-4539-86e3-e7f910f5fc5d

Migration Strategy

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/migration-strategy

/what-we-do/migration-strategy

/programs-subsite/migration-strategy/Pages/overview.aspx

96310978-dab0-4f57-bdac-4eb99d03b3a2

Permissions Capability

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/permissions-capability

/what-we-do/permissions-capability

/programs-subsite/Pages/permissions-capability/overview.aspx

ab7b01e6-9ade-4e0d-bcd9-f8b553488d8d

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/permissions-capability/overview

/what-we-do/permissions-capability/overview

9c1b807f-e9ad-4a78-b4c1-f9369d353f61

About the Permissions Capability

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/permissions-capability/about-the-permissions-capability

/what-we-do/permissions-capability/about-the-permissions-capability

/programs-subsite/Pages/permissions-capability/about.aspx

f50f13b7-c88f-4ed7-a968-9935b6c3e56b

Request for tender process

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/permissions-capability/request-for-tender-process

/what-we-do/permissions-capability/request-for-tender-process

/programs-subsite/Pages/permissions-capability/rft-process.aspx

3aa957c2-3208-4c27-9c72-d4367706451e

Frequently asked questions

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/permissions-capability/frequently-asked-questions

/what-we-do/permissions-capability/frequently-asked-questions

/programs-subsite/Pages/permissions-capability/faq.aspx

af9c2caf-fb8b-4422-8a87-3e75c7bb7c30

State and territory nomination allocations

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/what-we-do/state-and-territory-nomination-allocations

/what-we-do/state-and-territory-nomination-allocations

/programs-subsite/Pages/state-territory-nomination-allocations.aspx

debfb7a7-4057-4c46-b9af-228540e4bdfc

Settling in Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/default.aspx

5629cabe-8600-4b8a-aa4b-8924c8c8c86d

Adult Migrant English Program (AMEP)

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/amep

/settling-in-australia/amep

/amep-subsite/Pages/amep-v2/default.aspx

6cab3f8c-a236-40b1-bbf1-6c10cf5373b5

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/amep/overview

/settling-in-australia/amep/overview

f71bbddc-cce8-46df-889f-7ac8195ca86f

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/amep/about-the-program

/settling-in-australia/amep/about-the-program

/amep-subsite/Pages/amep-v2/about-amep.aspx

c4dfdca1-a6ab-4ed6-bed5-e77afeeaabd4

Changes to the program

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/amep/about-the-program/background

/settling-in-australia/amep/about-the-program/background

/amep-subsite/Pages/amep-v2/background.aspx

f1415f71-f086-4b0d-a11e-4fd4cf419982

Our people, their stories

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/amep/about-the-program/success-stories

/settling-in-australia/amep/about-the-program/success-stories

/amep-subsite/Pages/amep-v2/success-stories.aspx

10c4dd06-2efe-442e-bd58-0f23276fbb6a

Research: Benefits of study with AMEP

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/amep/about-the-program/benefits-study-with-amep

/settling-in-australia/amep/about-the-program/benefits-study-with-amep

/amep-subsite/Pages/benefits-study-amep.aspx

02ab2a3e-2305-4f4b-bd57-9b2c8c0c833b

AMEP locations

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/amep/find-a-class

/settling-in-australia/amep/find-a-class

/amep-subsite/Pages/amep-v2/find-a-class.aspx

da2eaf80-fdbf-41cb-88b7-aff1372aebe0

Providers and locations

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/amep/find-a-class/providers-and-locations

/settling-in-australia/amep/find-a-class/providers-and-locations

/amep-subsite/Pages/amep-v2/service-providers.aspx

6b83ea29-fff2-4e16-82b2-24228286d425

Distance learning

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/amep/find-a-class/distance-learning

/settling-in-australia/amep/find-a-class/distance-learning

/amep-subsite/Pages/amep-v2/distance-learning.aspx

7db573e0-78b2-4067-9b6d-0df5570c1b97

Information in languages

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/amep/information-in-languages

/settling-in-australia/amep/information-in-languages

/amep-subsite/Pages/amep-v2/amep-information-in-languages.aspx

c488dd8c-dba2-4b9a-b25b-c246f473b127

Resources

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/amep/resources

/settling-in-australia/amep/resources

/amep-subsite/Pages/amep-v2/volunteer-tutor-resources.aspx

45220311-2d55-41fc-b9a4-ad743fcdec33

Service providers

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/amep/service-providers

/settling-in-australia/amep/service-providers

/redirect-subsite/Pages/amepserviceproviders.aspx

e6f1679b-27b7-4e48-b604-009644d2fa6f

Australian Cultural Orientation (AUSCO) Program

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco

/settling-in-australia/ausco

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/ausco.aspx

fc9be1d3-9e0d-4d64-87c2-ba28721ed795

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/overview

/settling-in-australia/ausco/overview

655e68de-bf51-45b7-937b-d6b405ae1876

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/about-the-program

/settling-in-australia/ausco/about-the-program

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/about-the-program.aspx

520be2c8-75f0-4940-bfd3-69c76baf0b8e

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language

/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/information-in-your-language.aspx

13570acb-ea3e-4622-b648-8baa504b4580

Arabic

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language/arabic

/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language/arabic

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/information-in-your-language-arabic.aspx

b30e59dd-a18d-49f8-820a-92fdfe641cc4

Burmese

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language/burmese

/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language/burmese

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/information-in-your-language-burmese.aspx

304497ff-1388-47f4-9150-28d582cedc7e

Chin Hakha

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language/chin-hakha

/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language/chin-hakha

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/information-in-your-language-chin-hakha.aspx

f8e58cb9-92d3-4781-8091-0772b4145d35

Dari

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language/dari

/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language/dari

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/information-in-your-language-dari.aspx

2ee30f4c-0ec0-49a1-b914-73fb0a4f0c05

Farsi

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language/farsi

/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language/farsi

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/information-in-your-language-farsi.aspx

8a7ad932-8169-4ac8-8964-fc8b961804f6

Karen

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language/karen

/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language/karen

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/information-in-your-language-karen.aspx

3264ceb6-702c-4e4f-a51b-cf454d3c23eb

Nepali

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language/nepali

/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language/nepali

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/information-in-your-language-nepali.aspx

4198cd86-51b3-407a-b6f0-900f58b822f6

Somali

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language/somali

/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language/somali

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/information-in-your-language-somali.aspx

cf93f9db-9433-4838-98ae-8eaa6ca3e15e

Spanish

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language/spanish

/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language/spanish

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/information-in-your-language-spanish.aspx

00000185-650a-4c56-a759-102ec7da2120

Swahili

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language/swahili

/settling-in-australia/ausco/information-in-your-language/swahili

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/Information-in-your-language-swahili.aspx

7a72a14b-f619-41af-8dec-98c2b46a6d4a

Videos in your language

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language

/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/videos-in-your-language.aspx

f2863ecf-35c6-4b44-9991-3c72bc360551

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/arabic

/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/arabic

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/videos-in-your-language-arabic.aspx

2b3e05ee-6ae2-46a6-8465-f983b8c3bd07

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/burmese

/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/burmese

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/videos-in-your-language-burmese.aspx

7a6931e8-e7e1-466b-851e-856d8c8ca16f

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/chin-hakha

/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/chin-hakha

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/videos-in-your-language-chin-hakha.aspx

bec2bfe5-f6f4-4aaf-b716-e63f263c6efd

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/dari

/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/dari

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/videos-in-your-language-dari.aspx

cd4f9cc7-240b-4605-80fe-80801b2c19e5

English

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/english

/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/english

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/videos-in-language-english.aspx

b9cc1b0c-1c1e-4f78-8c15-2f38e8ebe739

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/farsi

/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/farsi

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/videos-in-your-language-farsi.aspx

39368d8d-b138-4050-8af7-440b6805730e

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/karen

/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/karen

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/videos-in-your-language-karen.aspx

9b539e00-c061-41a1-9c0d-77c23747063a

Kurmanji

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/kurmanji

/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/kurmanji

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/information-in-your-language-kurmanji.aspx

3afa589b-f1e4-433c-8103-c70d49c1d795

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/nepali

/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/nepali

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/videos-in-your-language-nepali.aspx

e5ab22cc-11e0-493c-91d6-57b2c24cbcbe

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/somali

/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/somali

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/videos-in-your-language-somali.aspx

43ba8628-d19a-4e39-96b3-1797e660fe11

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/swahili

/settling-in-australia/ausco/videos-in-your-language/swahili

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/videos-in-your-language-kiswahili.aspx

75ce1f93-a4bd-4f6e-9c6e-01f091bb036e

Helping Refugee's

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees

/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/helping-refugees.aspx

8e212c97-cedf-4e69-b929-0f7ba9522411

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/overview

/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/overview

5970d329-043a-49d1-8c02-caf5ee4e0520

Get involved

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/get-involved

/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/get-involved

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/get-involved.aspx

b49126ba-2d83-4456-88d2-9428f3cf4ca5

Volunteer

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/get-involved/volunteer

/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/get-involved/volunteer

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/volunteer.aspx

666e78d1-d266-4860-afc3-1699e95c2064

Community Refugee Integration and Settlement Program

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/get-involved/community-refugee-integration-settlement

/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/get-involved/community-refugee-integration-settlement

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/community-refugee-integration-pilot.aspx

2e865bac-deaa-4bc5-b4d0-de7c2da762a5

Refugee Student Settlement Pathway Pilot

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/get-involved/refugee-student-settlement-pathway-pilot

/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/get-involved/refugee-student-settlement-pathway-pilot

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/refugee-student-settlement-pathway-pilot.aspx

e47d62ab-df62-43dd-a43e-d65b6affc45d

Businesses and not for profit

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/get-involved/businesses-and-not-for-profit

/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/get-involved/businesses-and-not-for-profit

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/businesses-and-not-for-profit.aspx

08be1863-42c1-454e-8315-af8d6bbf4538

Donate

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/get-involved/donate

/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/get-involved/donate

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/donate.aspx

0c5b3472-4711-4f34-9567-4737c986b0c6

Refugee stories

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories

/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/refugee-stories.aspx

ac49426b-0d83-43d7-9ffc-563f4c744f3c

Amina

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories/amina

/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories/amina

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/amina.aspx

a6be3b10-4529-4a2a-b698-4733c936c922

Anita

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories/anita

/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories/anita

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/anita.aspx

02dd9f29-12a9-4303-a734-e6369f8df66f

Aref

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories/aref

/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories/aref

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/aref.aspx

2cc74234-dfe7-487a-9452-509333e5d259

Darwich

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories/darwich

/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories/darwich

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/darwich.aspx

3cd68bec-debd-4ce0-808a-c9052432df23

Evelyn

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories/evelyn

/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories/evelyn

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/evelyn.aspx

177a8159-8d62-4fbe-bc6f-6e4ca37ce939

Homa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories/homa

/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories/homa

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/homa.aspx

4907168d-1b2d-41f6-8553-39ebbfddb3b6

Isaac

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories/isaac

/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories/isaac

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/isaac.aspx

d8e78835-555e-457f-901a-c0c7920ff592

Padam

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories/padam

/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories/padam

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/padam.aspx

362bdea8-14fe-4549-87b3-eadde4ffae7b

Sara

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories/sara

/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories/sara

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/sara.aspx

652f50af-54f0-43ba-ac14-5ea2504824c0

Shafigheh

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories/shafigheh

/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/refugee-stories/shafigheh

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/shafigheh.aspx

cc3186c8-7aff-4c6a-aa83-74dc64c79c74

Media Hub

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/media-hub

/settling-in-australia/helping-refugees/media-hub

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/media-hub.aspx

8b7fb423-b83a-4261-924b-60c820ca2a5a

Humanitarian Settlement Program

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/humanitarian-settlement-program

/settling-in-australia/humanitarian-settlement-program

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/humanitarian-settlement-program.aspx

78c401cf-7f41-4eaf-a3df-6df737541dd8

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/humanitarian-settlement-program/overview

/settling-in-australia/humanitarian-settlement-program/overview

ce9ec3ec-4b00-453e-bcc8-37b3a21513d9

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/humanitarian-settlement-program/about-the-program

/settling-in-australia/humanitarian-settlement-program/about-the-program

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/about-the-program-hsp.aspx

2c55cb09-86e7-4901-8e0f-7dd421839c44

Humanitarian Settlement in Regional Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/humanitarian-settlement-program/about-the-program/humanitarian-settlement-regional-australia

/settling-in-australia/humanitarian-settlement-program/about-the-program/humanitarian-settlement-regional-australia

/redirect-subsite/Pages/redirect-humanitarian-settlement-regional-australia.aspx

6ae26cb2-14d6-4f47-9f1a-038d2867ba6d

Specialised and Intensive Services

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/humanitarian-settlement-program/specialised-and-intensive-services

/settling-in-australia/humanitarian-settlement-program/specialised-and-intensive-services

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/specialised-and-intensive-services.aspx

4b161fa6-32a1-48f1-93fb-d45d862edd78

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/humanitarian-settlement-program/service-providers

/settling-in-australia/humanitarian-settlement-program/service-providers

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/service-provider-locations.aspx

b20b84a1-edd0-40c9-ac4c-7b3951e1ecb4

Language services

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/language-services

/settling-in-australia/language-services

49f55e23-f482-4908-ab07-bfa40901c491

Settle in Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia

/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/settle-in-australia.aspx

154bb657-e885-4c9f-bbf3-0989b5049c8c

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/overview

/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/overview

97d3a893-1ba5-4b92-96f7-b2347fad525c

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/language-services

/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/language-services

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/language-services.aspx

2d315ba2-0473-43d9-a62c-9740ba961457

Free Interpreting Service

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/language-services/free-interpreting-service

/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/language-services/free-interpreting-service

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/free-interpreting-service.aspx

830853c8-d8c8-4ab7-a0cb-0cb7149f851b

Free Translating Service

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/language-services/free-translating-service

/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/language-services/free-translating-service

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/free-translating-service.aspx

f9ae3279-c5ce-49d8-9af3-a3d70dccc9e1

TIS National

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/language-services/tis-national

/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/language-services/tis-national

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/tis-national.aspx

ee948f56-c58f-476b-b2e9-636000854753

National Interpreter symbol

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/language-services/national-interpreter-symbol

/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/language-services/national-interpreter-symbol

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/national-Interpreter-symbol.aspx

8bad5783-a19e-493c-9699-980adfb1b2f6

Key settlement topics

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/key-settlement-topics

/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/key-settlement-topics

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/key-settlement-topics.aspx

0d67f0d5-ddff-4f6e-bea9-4a75e61dcce4

Employment

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/key-settlement-topics/employment

/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/key-settlement-topics/employment

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/employment.aspx

8bce5c96-059c-42c2-9e2b-fd608fc19b31

Education and training

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/key-settlement-topics/education-and-training

/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/key-settlement-topics/education-and-training

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/education-and-training.aspx

0bb1377b-e827-4b13-a78d-4db6606c5dc4

Health and Wellbeing

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/key-settlement-topics/health-and-wellbeing

/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/key-settlement-topics/health-and-wellbeing

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/health-and wellbeing.aspx

4e1a074d-1405-49c6-85f1-a4d377f4b2d5

Managing your finances

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/key-settlement-topics/managing-your-finances

/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/key-settlement-topics/managing-your-finances

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/managing-your-finances.aspx

36f8d85d-3003-4607-9f84-c19fc1e20f3a

Housing

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/key-settlement-topics/housing

/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/key-settlement-topics/housing

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/housing.aspx

61e5fbb5-358b-4ec9-9fa2-47d612ef50ba

Transport

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/key-settlement-topics/transport

/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/key-settlement-topics/transport

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/Transport.aspx

9d70d6e3-5833-49ca-a175-e9ac252b0022

Civic participation

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/key-settlement-topics/civic-participation

/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/key-settlement-topics/civic-participation

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/civic-participation.aspx

e48bbedb-0a1d-4607-8ef5-e3012069f44f

Community Hubs

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/community-hubs

/settling-in-australia/settle-in-australia/community-hubs

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/community-hubs.aspx

4584bf3f-b132-4dae-9f41-a0775c7f5d79

Settlement Engagement and Transition Support (SETS) Program

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program

/settling-in-australia/sets-program

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/SETS/overview.aspx

2f51978d-d85a-4e27-ab59-948f677af5ee

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/overview

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/overview

79beba9d-dc22-44ac-96e2-2386fae7ee42

Services and support

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/SETS/services-and-support.aspx

0bb36ae8-2fb4-4526-9d64-8f76a5d8ef04

Economic participation

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/economic-participation

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/economic-participation

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/SETS/economic-participation.aspx

c413aff0-0db1-4174-a5f4-2f73b86b8439

Health and wellbeing

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/health-and-wellbeing

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/health-and-wellbeing

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/SETS/health-and-wellbeing.aspx

26c77af0-8db9-467f-af03-81b11771b253

Language and digital literacy

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/language-and-digital-literacy

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/language-and-digital-literacy

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/SETS/language-and-digital-literacy.aspx

4b167f81-cd1a-4843-89e9-a8ab759e810e

Education

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/education

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/education

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/SETS/education.aspx

3ada65b3-9fa5-4559-86b9-b5e7b5e9cbe0

Housing and transport

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/housing-and-transport

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/housing-and-transport

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/SETS/housing-and-transport.aspx

c9dc4deb-12cc-48f4-b124-0de4fcf2461f

Understanding host culture

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/understanding-host-culture

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/understanding-host-culture

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/SETS/understanding-host-culture.aspx

1a5c99af-0505-4c4f-bfe6-28d6de99f071

Social connections

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/social-connections

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/social-connections

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/SETS/social-connections.aspx

d26ec563-11e1-449d-9491-24b011aa3837

Community welcome

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/community-welcome

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/community-welcome

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/SETS/community-welcome.aspx

5763de34-b145-4fc6-a2a2-fcabeb2a009f

Access to institutions

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/access-to-institutions

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/access-to-institutions

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/SETS/access-to-institutions.aspx

00300340-50d1-4a83-9dec-3d60d97edad1

Belonging

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/belonging

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/belonging

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/SETS/belonging.aspx

614c61a8-1e29-4cce-baa5-bf98517aa65e

Safety and security

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/safety-and-security

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/safety-and-security

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/SETS/safety-and-security.aspx

ec5998d9-ffdb-476c-86ab-73d697e5c7e3

Community Capacity Building

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/community-capacity-building

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/community-capacity-building

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/SETS/community-capacity-building.aspx

7b6286af-4923-4c93-8868-fbb0a18174ff

Sector Collaboration

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/sector-collaboration

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/types-of-services/sector-collaboration

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/SETS/sector-collaboration.aspx

3a357c70-d76f-4678-8f94-ba77048bf627

Program eligibility

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/eligibility

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/eligibility

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/SETS/program-eligibility.aspx

650401c9-ad2a-4005-a527-f5664759c77e

Eligible Permanent visa subclasses

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/eligibility/eligible-permanent-visa-subclasses

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/eligibility/eligible-permanent-visa-subclasses

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/SETS/eligible-permanent-visa-subclasses.aspx

980d494b-fd71-4e2c-8b7e-78ecb3694c0e

Eligible Temporary visa subclasses

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/eligibility/eligible-temporary-visa-subclasses

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/eligibility/eligible-temporary-visa-subclasses

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/SETS/eligible-temporary-visa-subclasses.aspx

26dbb352-3c66-45ce-9de2-01494fa57ef6

Providers

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/list-of-providers

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/list-of-providers

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/SETS/providers.aspx

afafa6aa-60ec-44f7-ada4-d0d77ff8ba3c

SETS Locations

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/list-of-providers/sets-locations

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/list-of-providers/sets-locations

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/SETS/provider-map-test.aspx

9cf4bd38-ca7d-4b2e-98ef-b34505d918cd

Evaluation of SETS

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/independent-evaluation-of-settlement-grants

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/independent-evaluation-of-settlement-grants

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/SETS/evaluation-of-sets.aspx

a3f93b55-3fe7-42b8-b137-02e2f9553feb

Settlement Engagement and Transition Support (SETS) Program - old

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/sets-program-overview.aspx

d0212b29-be9c-410d-9d94-939954e7d0d5

Types of services and support

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/types-of-services-and-support.aspx

984cc184-b01c-4a88-a5b2-7c312bdfa71c

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/program-eligibility.aspx

f7bb6fdc-4c2d-4e6f-a8e8-89a81cdbb260

List of providers

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/list-of-providers.aspx

6e3db07e-4a89-4437-974e-bc01fb6dcff6

Sector collaboration

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/collaboration

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/collaboration

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/sector-collaboration.aspx

e1ed99ff-e7c3-471a-8522-0d44a71e43b4

Settlement Engagement and Transition Support evaluation

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/independent-evaluation-of-settlement-grants.aspx

13e6775a-92ab-46a5-9892-5ffffb23620c

SETS – Client Services

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/sets-client-services

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/sets-client-services

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/sets-client-services.aspx

2f502009-c94e-4ba0-918c-72b5a84b65f8

SETS – Community Capacity Building

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/sets-program/sets-community-capacity-building

/settling-in-australia/sets-program/sets-community-capacity-building

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/sets-community-capacity-building.aspx

216f4aa7-174a-4176-94ff-921df54e4018

Settlement Policy and Reform

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settlement-policy-and-reform

/settling-in-australia/settlement-policy-and-reform

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/coordinator-general-migrant-services.aspx

7ebe21fd-b504-47c2-847d-9dbf1aaea33a

Refugee and Humanitarian Entrant Settlement and Integration Outcomes Framework

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settlement-policy-and-reform/refugee-and-humanitarian-entrant-settlement-and-integration-outcomes-framework

/settling-in-australia/settlement-policy-and-reform/refugee-and-humanitarian-entrant-settlement-and-integration-outcomes-framework

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/refugee-and-humanitarian-entrant-settlement-and-integration-outcomes-framework.aspx

9073d642-d2f3-4024-a80a-a780b296676f

Settlement Advisory Council

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settlement-policy-and-reform/settlement-advisory-council

/settling-in-australia/settlement-policy-and-reform/settlement-advisory-council

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/settlement-advisory-council.aspx

9de2df3e-2614-4d12-829d-95d83e2bf6a1

Refugee and Humanitarian Settlement Sector Consultation

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settlement-policy-and-reform/refugee-and-humanitarian-settlement-sector-consultation

/settling-in-australia/settlement-policy-and-reform/refugee-and-humanitarian-settlement-sector-consultation

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/refugee-and-humanitarian-settlement-sector-consultation.aspx

5c24d6d5-3388-4942-a866-6a05f1b5f71c

Community sponsorship reforms

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settlement-policy-and-reform/community-sponsorship-reforms

/settling-in-australia/settlement-policy-and-reform/community-sponsorship-reforms

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/community-sponsorship-reforms.aspx

91c7dc85-f3a3-4e9e-9faa-59f6355c41d8

Employment pathways for refugees

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settlement-policy-and-reform/employment-pathways-for-refugees

/settling-in-australia/settlement-policy-and-reform/employment-pathways-for-refugees

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/employment-pathways-for-refugees.aspx

36d8fefc-440d-4169-896e-bc385bd9efc0

English Language Training Reforms

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settlement-policy-and-reform/english-language-training-reforms

/settling-in-australia/settlement-policy-and-reform/english-language-training-reforms

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/english-language-training-reforms.aspx

94c57e75-95fb-433d-8f21-daeba8a81d73

Improved data on refugees and humanitarian entrants

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settlement-policy-and-reform/improved-data-on-refugees-and-humanitarian-entrants

/settling-in-australia/settlement-policy-and-reform/improved-data-on-refugees-and-humanitarian-entrants

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/improved-data-refugees-and-humanitarian.aspx

7b70d435-d146-462d-8a33-2df0ea96c907

Humanitarian Se ttlement in Regional Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settlement-policy-and-reform/humanitarian-settlement-regional-australia

/settling-in-australia/settlement-policy-and-reform/humanitarian-settlement-regional-australia

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/humanitarian-settlement-in-regional-australia.aspx

be3fb930-5326-4b60-b25a-25fd7fe5f900

Settlement Reports

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settlement-reports

/settling-in-australia/settlement-reports

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/settlement-reports.aspx

46f0a1e3-67e3-412b-b69d-658c180335e4

Settlement reporting caveats

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/settlement-reports/settlement-reporting-caveats

/settling-in-australia/settlement-reports/settlement-reporting-caveats

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/settlement-reporting-caveats.aspx

d98de281-f0d8-4447-b523-22ca48b3ec72

Support for young refugees

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/support-for-young-refugees

/settling-in-australia/support-for-young-refugees

/redirect-subsite/Pages/support-for-young-refugees.aspx

1648ba4b-fc5c-42a3-a9c5-98c0003014b8

Youth Transition Support services

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/support-for-young-refugees/youth-transition-support-services

/settling-in-australia/support-for-young-refugees/youth-transition-support-services

/redirect-subsite/Pages/yts-services.aspx

fce62e06-baba-4966-b0fc-3e4972032120

Youth Transition Support

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services

/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/YTS/overview.aspx

beead10a-2651-4dfe-8b54-df926101a110

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/overview

/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/overview

8203ce4b-d3ad-4050-8f80-f2e57f4984c1

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/program-eligibility

/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/program-eligibility

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/YTS/program-eligibility.aspx

81d83752-7640-44c1-80d2-9524b398a899

Locations and providers

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/locations-and-providers

/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/locations-and-providers

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/YTS/locations-and-providers.aspx

96aa3e2e-fab5-4cd8-b57f-a0a0f88ce0c1

Evaluation

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/evaluation

/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/evaluation

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/YTS/evaluation.aspx

62f353fa-85ec-458d-bbf4-cfacb0ade648

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/case-studies

/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/case-studies

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/YTS/case-studies.aspx

2d973d32-7c6a-41bf-82bb-0231f39d285c

Brotherhood of St Laurence

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/case-studies/brotherhood-st-laurence

/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/case-studies/brotherhood-st-laurence

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/YTS/brotherhood-st-laurence.aspx

e12cd413-5b43-4828-a48d-6daf671d3cbd

Community Migrant Resource Centre

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/case-studies/community-migrant-resource-centre

/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/case-studies/community-migrant-resource-centre

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/YTS/community-migrant-resource-centre.aspx

0cf3d3c7-c54e-485b-884a-6edc61a9e4dd

Foundation House

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/case-studies/foundation-house

/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/case-studies/foundation-house

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/YTS/foundation-house.aspx

edf19c66-cda5-496a-8862-67af260e6223

Lebanese Muslim Association

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/case-studies/lebanese-muslim-association

/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/case-studies/lebanese-muslim-association

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/YTS/lebanese-muslim-association.aspx

ccc0bf72-8cac-4199-9cfa-b092c7294276

Multicultural Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/case-studies/multicultural-australia

/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/case-studies/multicultural-australia

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/YTS/multicultural-australia.aspx

9c1e65bb-59d7-475a-8a2d-da0234e6fe1f

Settlement Services International

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/case-studies/settlement-services-international

/settling-in-australia/youth-transition-support-services/case-studies/settlement-services-international

/settlement-services-subsite/Pages/YTS/settlement-services-international.aspx

5be98007-21a7-495e-a5e4-938e2c0064c9

Help and support

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support

/support-subsite/Pages/default.aspx

f23a0322-e338-49cd-849f-293073042537

Departmental forms

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms

/help-support/departmental-forms

/form-listing/Pages/Departmental-forms-listing/Overview.aspx

bd2a696a-2b72-4f35-b02d-66fe7e0afd0c

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/overview

/help-support/departmental-forms/overview

424f238e-ff72-4301-b1ad-673c2ffc3eda

Online forms

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms

/form-listing/Pages/Departmental-forms-listing/Online-forms.aspx

e903c9e0-3adf-4726-a12e-523fe6b609db

APEC Business Travel Card Enquiry Form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/apec-business-travel-card-enquiry-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/apec-business-travel-card-enquiry-form

/form-listing/Pages/apec-business-travel-card-enquiry-form.aspx

0ab41446-faf5-4d0a-9193-ec4e62b530b1

Application for Authority to Return or Return Endorsement (Transitional (Permanent) visa) recorded as a BF-111 visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/application-bf-111-visa

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/application-bf-111-visa

/form-listing/Pages/application-bf111-visa.aspx

00689af6-0607-404b-81db-b31d223de428

ARMS User Access Request Form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/arms-user-access-request-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/arms-user-access-request-form

/form-listing/Pages/arms.aspx

bcdd0004-d738-4e10-863a-67e7ab644e25

Australian Immigration Enquiry Form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form

/form-listing/Pages/australian-immigration-enquiry-form-landing-page.aspx

84cf416a-16b6-4a94-8b09-0b4362463bc2

Australian Immigration Enquiry Form - Americas Region

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/americas-region

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/americas-region

/form-listing/Pages/australian-immigration-enquiry-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form-americas-region.aspx

ef845b38-046e-46d9-9b81-96415c2e16a7

Australian Immigration Enquiry Form - Amman

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/amman

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/amman

/form-listing/Pages/australian-immigration-enquiry-forms/australian-Immigration-enquiry-form-amman.aspx

15b4157b-ee42-4dae-b77a-cd3df330cf2b

Australian Immigration Enquiry Form - Beirut

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/beirut

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/beirut

/form-listing/Pages/australian-immigration-enquiry-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form-beirut.aspx

2c8a6a43-676a-4fd1-92f4-2b92f59452a3

Australian Immigration Enquiry Form - China

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/china

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/china

/form-listing/Pages/australian-immigration-enquiry-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form-china.aspx

5782ec06-2c62-4d76-a741-6ca131579564

Australian Immigration Enquiry Form - Hong Kong

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/hong-kong

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/hong-kong

/form-listing/Pages/australian-immigration-enquiry-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form-hong-kong.aspx

2dd77a24-1b96-40d6-b18b-5f3c4d9db783

Australian Immigration Enquiry Form - Jakarta

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/jakarta

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/jakarta

/form-listing/Pages/australian-immigration-enquiry-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form-jakarta.aspx

c9f0175d-c063-4950-8258-aca3f272c17d

Australian Immigration Enquiry Form - Japan

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/japan

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/japan

/form-listing/Pages/australian-immigration-enquiry-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form-japan.aspx

06d56db3-af50-4eec-a68b-a05fbd459541

Australian Immigration Enquiry Form - Manila

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/manila

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/manila

/form-listing/Pages/australian-immigration-enquiry-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form-manila.aspx

aff19687-25e9-41bd-a150-fbaf10626536

Australian Immigration Enquiry Form - Nairobi

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/nairobi

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/nairobi

/form-listing/Pages/australian-immigration-enquiry-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form-nairobi.aspx

78720f7e-a184-47cd-925a-2d841f5d4a7f

Australian Immigration Enquiry Form - New Delhi

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/new-delhi

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/new-delhi

/form-listing/Pages/australian-immigration-enquiry-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form-new-delhi.aspx

de2764a1-a3fd-4334-91eb-778660bcd933

Australian Immigration Enquiry Form - Phnom Penh

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/phnom-penh

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/phnom-penh

/form-listing/Pages/australian-immigration-enquiry-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form-phnom-penh.aspx

5a1e7c84-2fc1-4dfa-a580-8bf6bd9611a5

Australian Immigration Enquiry Form - Pretoria

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/pretoria

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/pretoria

/form-listing/Pages/australian-immigration-enquiry-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form-pretoria.aspx

6412fee6-d10e-454a-b3fd-a54528d087e3

Australian Immigration Enquiry Form - South Korea

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/south-korea

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/south-korea

/form-listing/Pages/australian-immigration-enquiry-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form-south-korea.aspx

eb0240dd-d5c7-4a9b-b716-5ed889eccbe8

Australian Immigration Enquiry Form - Suva

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/suva

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/suva

/form-listing/Pages/australian-immigration-enquiry-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form-suva.aspx

a5b30699-8a09-42f6-9224-a47fd0bd3a95

Australian Immigration Enquiry Form - Thailand

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/thailand

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/thailand

/form-listing/Pages/australian-immigration-enquiry-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form-thailand.aspx

569bc71f-0fce-421c-a5d4-49fdef437da2

Australian Immigration Enquiry Form - Vietnam

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/vietnam

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form/vietnam

/form-listing/Pages/australian-immigration-enquiry-forms/australian-immigration-enquiry-form-vietnam.aspx

d1f05bd1-e098-4383-8cf9-dd9e4c29b93d

Business, Industry and Regional Outreach contact form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/business-industry-regional-outreach-contact-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/business-industry-regional-outreach-contact-form

/form-listing/Pages/business-industry-regional-outreach-contact-form.aspx

db8a35f3-a2ff-4dab-910c-70ce5faad998

Child and orphan relative visa processing centre form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/child-and-orphan-relative-visa-processing-centre-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/child-and-orphan-relative-visa-processing-centre-form

/form-listing/Pages/child-and-other-family-processing-centre-enquiry-form.aspx

28e78c2f-9492-4a30-806b-a0dd97514b50

Condition 8208 – Change of course approval request form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/condition-8208-change-of-course

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/condition-8208-change-of-course

/form-listing/Pages/condition-8208-change-course-approval.aspx

335f9e9b-4d8f-4203-9825-22ffefe8d0f6

Contact the Immigration Status Resolution Service

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/contact-immigration-status-resolution-service

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/contact-immigration-status-resolution-service

/form-listing/Pages/contact-immi-status-resolution-service.aspx

55cba21e-b422-44ef-aa4e-5f5065b181a0

COVID-19 (Novel coronavirus) enquiry form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/covid19-enquiry-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/covid19-enquiry-form

/redirect-subsite/Pages/covid-19-request-to-travel-form-redirect.aspx

cc74f7d3-89b4-45b1-b501-a435c81ee477

COVID-19 travel restrictions – Visa application charge (VAC) refund request form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/covid-19-vac-refund-request

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/covid-19-vac-refund-request

/form-listing/Pages/vac-refund-request-form.aspx

6f2ca4ee-f240-438f-b418-27d1b22cbcaf

Document Verification Services form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/document-verification-services-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/document-verification-services-form

/form-listing/Pages/dvs-request-form.aspx

f9bc1b20-38f1-4894-ace0-c0efda4f86ff

Electronic record creation of a permanent visa request form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/electronic-record-creation-of-pr-visa

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/electronic-record-creation-of-pr-visa

/form-listing/Pages/electronic-visa-record-application.aspx

8f42dfa8-280d-48d6-bc85-7536ac5a3cc3

Electronic Travel Authority (ETA) –Request for further processing form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/eta-request-for-further-processing-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/eta-request-for-further-processing-form

/form-listing/Pages/eta-further-processing-request.aspx

e64280b6-2089-4b0d-ad8d-8d12626811ca

Employer request for relaxation of enforcement of student visa working hours

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/request-relaxation-of-enforcement-student-visa-work-condition

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/request-relaxation-of-enforcement-student-visa-work-condition

/redirect-subsite/Pages/student-work-hours-exemption.aspx

d0442c30-a6d3-436d-b44f-cb0c8ff97bf2

Employer Sponsored Visa Program Enquiry Form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/employer-sponsored-visa-program-enquiry-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/employer-sponsored-visa-program-enquiry-form

/form-listing/Pages/employer-sponsored-visa-program-enquiry-form.aspx

7d8d1777-99af-41db-b572-04c8a934caba

Form 15 Incoming passenger card

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/ipc

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/ipc

/redirect-subsite/Pages/ipc-redirect.aspx

3516846a-bcf3-445c-97ea-20f7832db281

General enquiry form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/general-enquiry-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/general-enquiry-form

/redirect-subsite/Pages/general-enquiries-form.aspx

4c4981f4-4708-4310-9b07-660c0bc7cbb2

Global Business and Talent Attraction Taskforce Business enquiry form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/global-business-and-talent-attraction-taskforce-business-enquiry-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/global-business-and-talent-attraction-taskforce-business-enquiry-form

/form-listing/Pages/global-business-talent-attraction-taskforce-contact-form.aspx

31cc2dda-1fe9-4a63-b12f-e0b22b3b2ab2

Global Business and Talent Attraction Taskforce expression of interest form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/global-business-and-talent-attraction-taskforce-expression-of-interest-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/global-business-and-talent-attraction-taskforce-expression-of-interest-form

/redirect-subsite/Pages/global-business-and-talent-attraction-expression-of-interest-form.aspx

738f445e-9dd7-4de4-bc50-4cacf9d10005

Global Talent Contact Form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/global-talent-contact-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/global-talent-contact-form

/redirect-subsite/Pages/global-talent-contact-form.aspx

4eb42731-1246-4696-82c4-a2d33044e5aa

ImmiAccount technical support form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/immiaccount-technical-support-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/immiaccount-technical-support-form

/form-listing/Pages/immiaccount-technical-support-form.aspx

7afa67fa-a158-4d58-9de9-6c9002e783a9

ImmiCard amendment request

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/immicard-amendment-request

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/immicard-amendment-request

/form-listing/Pages/ImmiCard-amendment-request.aspx

849665e5-a34b-4a96-8f01-1d134bb4aacc

Immicard electronic visa record application form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/immicard-electronic-visa-record-application

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/immicard-electronic-visa-record-application

/form-listing/Pages/Application-for-an-ImmiCard.aspx

fa0b5ca4-61fd-4f15-9aa2-3ae7f0ef4f5b

ImmiCard Help

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/immicard-help

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/immicard-help

/form-listing/Pages/ImmiCard-help.aspx

0a54b9f9-948f-4b36-bc1a-ff832db5a1de

Maritime crew visa enquiry form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/maritime-crew-visa-enquiry-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/maritime-crew-visa-enquiry-form

/form-listing/Pages/Maritime-Crew-Visa-Enquiry-Form.aspx

5af5f30d-d6e4-4d8d-9d87-f3c34b783e9b

National Innovation visa form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/national-innovation-visa-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/national-innovation-visa-form

/form-listing/Pages/niv-eoi.aspx

1204b6f6-b994-450d-8700-fd3ca16ece30

New Zealand Citizen Family Relationship visa processing centre form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/nz-citiz-family-relationship-visa-processing-centre-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/nz-citiz-family-relationship-visa-processing-centre-form

/form-listing/Pages/nz-citizen-family-relationship-visa-processing-centre-form.aspx

297700ba-79e9-491a-91e5-6a78ddc4d007

No further stay waiver request form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/no-further-stay-waiver-request-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/no-further-stay-waiver-request-form

/form-listing/Pages/no-further-stay-waiver-request-form.aspx

b1b5af1d-7038-4bf8-a209-fb2977a6a01c

Notification of Family Violence - Secondary Applicants form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/notification-of-family-violence-secondary-applicants-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/notification-of-family-violence-secondary-applicants-form

/form-listing/Pages/notification-of-family-violence-secondary-applicants.aspx

c218bd5f-ddbe-4a32-a88f-d8378301d618

Online application enquiries

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/online-application-enquiries

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/online-application-enquiries

/form-listing/Pages/Online-Application-Enquiries.aspx

09089595-b9ae-4829-84fb-e85d801aa122

Other Family visa processing centre form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/other-family-visa-processing-centre-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/other-family-visa-processing-centre-form

/form-listing/Pages/other-family-visa-processing-centre-form.aspx

44454947-e180-444f-ae00-9675c8c45db6

Panel physician enquiry form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/panel-physician-enquiry-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/panel-physician-enquiry-form

/form-listing/Pages/Panel-Physician-Enquiry-Form.aspx

4bc826ef-beca-4196-b4db-e2288a2caf2b

Parent visa processing centre form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/parent-visa-processing-centre-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/parent-visa-processing-centre-form

/form-listing/Pages/parent-visa-processing-centre-form.aspx

d72650be-6787-4dcc-97c6-76de0c875c89

Partner (permanent) processing centres enquiry form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/partner-processing-enquiry-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/partner-processing-enquiry-form

/form-listing/Pages/Partner-(Permanent)-Processing-Centres-Enquiry-Form.aspx

275f780d-299c-4b5a-8730-e72797ba6224

Points calculator

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/points-calculator

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/points-calculator

/form-listing/Pages/Points-calculator.aspx

af136565-a50b-481b-9216-db28b275250d

PPPCF-redirect

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/partner-permanent-processing-centres-enquiry-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/partner-permanent-processing-centres-enquiry-form

/redirect-subsite/Pages/partner-permanent-processing-centres-enquiry-form.aspx

24a078d6-049a-4ba6-9c83-cfdbb8ab47e7

Proposal for a Special Program

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/proposal-for-a-special-program

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/proposal-for-a-special-program

/form-listing/Pages/Special-Program-proposal.aspx

cffaef2c-a8b0-4b3d-85b8-cdfa24b1077b

Refund decision internal review request

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/refund-decision-internal-review-request

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/refund-decision-internal-review-request

/form-listing/Pages/refund-decision-internal-review-request.aspx

398f5b99-ec93-4ed7-8c75-0e27bf23a1d8

Registered migration agents enquiry and feedback

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/registered-migration-agents-enquiry-and-feedback

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/registered-migration-agents-enquiry-and-feedback

/form-listing/Pages/Registered-migration-agents-enquiry-and-feedback.aspx

400e0687-32df-4680-80fc-30466c9206a2

Report a Data Breach relating to your ImmiAccount

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/report-a-data-breach-relating-to-your-immiaccount

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/report-a-data-breach-relating-to-your-immiaccount

/form-listing/Pages/report-a-data-breach-immiaccount.aspx

0855721d-02bf-444f-beb5-0409fa1561f5

Request for a refund

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/request-for-a-refund

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/request-for-a-refund

2c3defe2-7782-4b17-a768-be8c367ea6e8

Request for confirmation of Australian citizenship status of a deceased person

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/request-confirmation-of-australian-citizenship-status-of-deceased-person

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/request-confirmation-of-australian-citizenship-status-of-deceased-person

/form-listing/Pages/request-for-confirmation-of-australian-citizenship-status-of-a-deceased-person.aspx

249f5ac5-fae0-46bb-8d5e-e455194ddbe3

Request for international movement records

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/request-international-movement-records

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/request-international-movement-records

/form-listing/Pages/request-for-international-movement-records.aspx

b5ff42f8-9454-44c0-9043-da82936273ad

Resident Return, Australian Declaratory and Transitional (permanent) visa processing centre form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/rrv-processing-centre-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/rrv-processing-centre-form

/form-listing/Pages/rrv-processing-centre-form.aspx

89b4a34c-97a5-47b4-b05e-75f827d820c1

SHEV pathway self-assessment tool

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/shev-pathway-self-assessment-tool

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/shev-pathway-self-assessment-tool

/form-listing/Pages/shev-pathway-self-assessment-tool.aspx

13a40fea-2f35-43a1-ad49-2673ddb32cf0

Special Category (subclass 444) visa – Onshore application form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/special-category-visa

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/special-category-visa

/form-listing/Pages/form-444-web.aspx

5f3c71c2-6c94-450e-88da-b6058222b1aa

special humanitarian visa submission form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/special-humanitarian-visa-submission-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/special-humanitarian-visa-submission-form

/form-listing/Pages/refugee-and-humanitarian-visa-application.aspx

685779ac-5a3e-4e7a-a573-22bb51ea0ca7

Student visa biometrics enquiry

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/student-visa-biometrics-enquiry

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/student-visa-biometrics-enquiry

/form-listing/Pages/Student-visa-biometrics-enquiry.aspx

8169b95d-52d7-432d-ab08-6a907ce262cd

Submit your Bridging A, B or C visa application online

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/bridging-a-b-c-visa-application-online

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/bridging-a-b-c-visa-application-online

/form-listing/Pages/submit-your-bridging-a-b-c-visa.aspx

e8c52443-9c43-49ba-9574-38d75329de49

Submit your Urgent Bridging B visa application online

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/submit-your-urgent-bridging-b-visa-application-online

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/submit-your-urgent-bridging-b-visa-application-online

/Visa-subsite/Pages/urgent-bridging-visa-b.aspx

56375eb4-6599-45e8-ad95-17d98b68ce75

Travel facilitation letter request form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/travel-facilitation-letter-request-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/travel-facilitation-letter-request-form

/form-listing/Pages/travel-facilitation-letter-request-form.aspx

f6e800cd-6f50-45b2-8e3d-4181df8601e6

travelling-with-a-criminal-conviction

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/travelling-with-a-criminal-conviction

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/travelling-with-a-criminal-conviction

/form-listing/Pages/travelling-with-a-criminal-conviction.aspx

d7f472b1-0db6-4594-a513-955217b3eca2

Update contact details

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/update-contact-details

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/update-contact-details

/form-listing/Pages/update-contact-details.aspx

a1522808-0672-4fab-b8e0-e59b767bd929

Vevo enquiry form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/vevo-enquiry-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/vevo-enquiry-form

/form-listing/Pages/vevo-enquiry-form.aspx

d9812c16-e9c0-4f8f-b576-27ed8b46f05f

vevo request for reference number form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/vevo-request-for-reference-number-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/vevo-request-for-reference-number-form

/form-listing/Pages/vevo-request-for-reference-number-form.aspx

76eedcc6-8bdf-4463-95d1-5c9e32ef0965

Withdraw consent form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/withdraw-consent-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/withdraw-consent-form

/form-listing/Pages/withdraw-consent-form.aspx

4e704b8d-2654-4925-b7db-832f6db48c9e

Withdrawal of New Zealand Citizen Family Relationship, Former Resident and Australian Declaratory visa applications

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/withdrawal-new-zealand-citizen-family-relationship-former-resident-and-australian-declaratory-visa-applications

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/withdrawal-new-zealand-citizen-family-relationship-former-resident-and-australian-declaratory-visa-applications

/form-listing/Pages/withdrawal-of-new-zealand-citizen-family-relationship-former-resident-and-australian-declaratory-visa-applications.aspx

be848990-7b61-449d-bd1b-da7f5c880b28

Withdrawal of Parent, Child and Other Family visa applications

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/withdrawal-of-parent-child-other-family-visa-applications

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/withdrawal-of-parent-child-other-family-visa-applications

/form-listing/Pages/withdrawal-of-parent-child-other-family-visa-applications.aspx

5f82931d-0627-4264-8eae-c37e5a0bf46a

Working holiday maker application enquiry form

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/working-holiday-maker-application-enquiry-form

/help-support/departmental-forms/online-forms/working-holiday-maker-application-enquiry-form

/redirect-subsite/Pages/working-holiday-maker-application-enquiry-form.aspx

fa13d324-7830-4dda-9a8c-6b58f0f0135f

Paper forms

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/pdf-forms

/help-support/departmental-forms/pdf-forms

/form-listing/Pages/Departmental-forms-listing/pdf-forms.aspx

47a28347-1449-440a-9020-d559ef8c5178

Help with forms

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/departmental-forms/help-with-forms

/help-support/departmental-forms/help-with-forms

/form-listing/Pages/Departmental-forms-listing/Help-with-pdf-forms.aspx

7f00bac3-59ec-4223-9ccd-358ead265168

Glossary

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/glossary

/support-subsite/Pages/Glossary.aspx

d0ea755f-ee58-4dc4-9beb-227021c2b857

DNA testing

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/glossary/dna-testing

/help-support/glossary/dna-testing

5e45141a-3d60-44d1-9841-19ae211738b6

How to get a police certificate

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/glossary/how-to-get-police-certificate

/help-support/glossary/how-to-get-police-certificate

/support-subsite/Pages/How-to-get-a-police-certificate.aspx

6c0f13a8-a346-4494-948d-732b465c0374

International surrogacy

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/glossary/international-surrogacy

/help-support/glossary/international-surrogacy

edbd75d1-300c-4638-a672-b220fc8f1732

Our online services

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/tools

/support-subsite/Pages/Tools-and-online-services.aspx

effa3858-11aa-43b2-a9e6-dadc9f8da492

Digital Assistant

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/tools/digital-assistant

/help-support/tools/digital-assistant

/support-subsite/Pages/digital-assistant.aspx

18441d90-5d7e-45e7-a086-f14227ac3f69

eMedical

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/tools/emedical

/help-support/tools/emedical

/support-subsite/Pages/eMedical/eMedical.aspx

58cace17-06a7-467c-889e-38a4c5bb0a2f

eMedical client

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/tools/emedical/emedical-client

/help-support/tools/emedical/emedical-client

/support-subsite/Pages/eMedical/eMedical-client.aspx

3cf19b0f-0b09-483d-88cf-4a79bafd353f

Personal information in eMedical

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/tools/emedical/personal-information-emedical

/help-support/tools/emedical/personal-information-emedical

/support-subsite/Pages/eMedical/Personal-information-in-eMedical.aspx

26f2cdd9-00f2-4172-bc3d-57aecae8b5f0

ImmiAccount

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/tools/immiaccount

/help-support/tools/immiaccount

/support-subsite/Pages/Applying-online-or-paper/Online.aspx

231813d4-a7ae-4e74-987f-1ae5d31cf571

Attaching documents to your application

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/tools/immiaccount/attaching-documents-to-your-application

/help-support/tools/immiaccount/attaching-documents-to-your-application

2cda5569-36e7-41d6-9fb1-ac374d49cf00

LEGENDcom

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/tools/legendcom

/help-support/tools/legendcom

/support-subsite/Pages/legendcom.aspx

523d7e28-ae80-471f-a906-12da00e2307a

How to subscribe

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/tools/legendcom/subscribe

/help-support/tools/legendcom/subscribe

/support-subsite/Pages/legendcom-subscribe.aspx

9bd30823-2379-4e24-8b4c-2be6fa16ca56

Panel physician gateway

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/tools/panel-physician-gateway

/help-support/tools/panel-physician-gateway

/support-subsite/Pages/panel physician gateway/panel-physician-gateway.aspx

1ce96334-902b-493d-8506-8565db006c18

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/tools/panel-physician-gateway/overview

/help-support/tools/panel-physician-gateway/overview

b764d0a9-fa8d-4fb5-9fcb-4c1178582afb

Conducting Australian visa medicals

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/tools/panel-physician-gateway/conducting-australian-visa-medicals

/help-support/tools/panel-physician-gateway/conducting-australian-visa-medicals

/support-subsite/Pages/panel physician gateway/conducting-australian-visas-medical.aspx

fac9d072-aa49-4f00-89a1-bda9e06b3ee2

Using eMedical

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/tools/panel-physician-gateway/using-emedical

/help-support/tools/panel-physician-gateway/using-emedical

/support-subsite/Pages/panel physician gateway/e-medical.aspx

d3b7251d-5899-4a49-b48e-47956b5a643f

Immigration Health

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/tools/panel-physician-gateway/immigration-health

/help-support/tools/panel-physician-gateway/immigration-health

/support-subsite/Pages/panel physician gateway/immigration-health.aspx

6ff5e3a3-27f3-48c7-ae1f-49d81a1badb4

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/tools/points-calculator

/help-support/tools/points-calculator

621ab463-d339-44a7-bb1d-41344bfc7119

Residence calculator

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/tools/residence-calculator

/help-support/tools/residence-calculator

/citizenship-subsite/Pages/Residence-Calculator.aspx

b6388b81-5ea2-4f9a-a463-82ce34ece8cb

Visa Entitlement Verfication Online

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/tools/vevo

/redirect-subsite/Pages/Vevo-redirect.aspx

202895f1-0aeb-4307-aa3e-93fad3c5a671

Meeting our requirements

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements

/support-subsite/Pages/Meeting-requirements/Overview.aspx

34f3629b-11bb-4105-b550-493e1e4cfeed

Health

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health

/supporting/Pages/Health-requirements/Health-requirements.aspx

38c61176-d0e2-4ee9-9932-fea0271476e1

Who needs health examinations

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/who-needs-health-examinations

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/who-needs-health-examinations

/supporting/Pages/Health-requirements/who-needs-health-examinations.aspx

cb422471-1e4c-41e9-8eb6-edf380c4c311

What health examinations you need

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/what-health-examinations-you-need

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/what-health-examinations-you-need

/supporting/Pages/Health-requirements/health-examinations-you-need-to-undergo.aspx

1be5b53c-de56-43c8-8abc-33a17cc2900c

When to have health examinations

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/when-to-have-health-examinations

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/when-to-have-health-examinations

/supporting/Pages/Health-requirements/When-to-undergo-health-examinations.aspx

ce7ad6be-7ec7-46a0-8be7-f55d417f822e

Arrange your health examinations

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/arrange-your-health-examinations

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/arrange-your-health-examinations

/supporting/Pages/Health-requirements/Arranging-health-examinations.aspx

15cbb449-a984-41db-aafc-a20194dba75a

Your health examinations appointment

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/your-health-examinations-appointment

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/your-health-examinations-appointment

/supporting/Pages/Health-requirements/on-the-day-of-your-appointment.aspx

97bde4c2-42c8-4d34-9cda-d1b77c7a8121

After your health examinations

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/after-your-health-examinations

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/after-your-health-examinations

/supporting/Pages/Health-requirements/After-you-undergo-health-examinations.aspx

89d44528-4279-47fc-8308-976689d6417b

Health undertaking

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/health-undertaking

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/health-undertaking

/supporting/Pages/Health-requirements/health-undertakings.aspx

a243721b-8f07-400f-bde9-8792da88d4c1

Special consideration for children born and ordinarily resident in Australia that do not meet the health requirement

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/special-consideration-for-children

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/special-consideration-for-children

/supporting/Pages/Health-requirements/children-born-in-aus-that-do-not-meet-health-requirement.aspx

31ae1bb8-064d-452b-943f-e53cdb57c513

Health waiver

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/health-waiver

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/health-waiver

/supporting/Pages/Health-requirements/Health-waiver.aspx

0f798480-269a-4680-9141-2f841af6875c

Protecting health care and community services

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/protecting-health-care-and-community-services

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/protecting-health-care-and-community-services

/supporting/Pages/Health-requirements/protecting-healthcare-system.aspx

c562b9a7-643a-49ed-8902-ace1541a6e41

Threats to public health

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/threats-to-public-health

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/threats-to-public-health

/supporting/Pages/Health-requirements/Threats-to-public-health.aspx

84304b23-de8d-4236-becc-2added603d6f

Adequate health insurance

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/adequate-health-insurance

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/health/adequate-health-insurance

/supporting/Pages/Adequate-health-insurance.aspx

9f40d44b-bbfb-4ffd-b9f8-761efe0c3f7b

Character

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/character

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/character

/support-subsite/Pages/character-requirements.aspx

e793f673-0b41-439b-a560-c23a508deca2

Character requirements for Australian Citizenship

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/character/character-requirements-for-australian-citizenship

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/character/character-requirements-for-australian-citizenship

/support-subsite/Pages/character-requirements-australian-citizenship.aspx

a657e572-4e28-4e97-8bf6-409c97d1d686

Character requirements for Australian Citizenship - new

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/character/character-requirements-for-australian-citizenship-new

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/character/character-requirements-for-australian-citizenship-new

b19edd04-4e0a-4b51-8286-5d7d1894374b

English language

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/english-language

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/english-language

/supporting/Pages/English-requirements.aspx

6d467e5c-d5b3-4af2-8401-fbd58a3f5800

Functional English

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/english-language/functional-english

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/english-language/functional-english

/supporting/Pages/functional-english.aspx

bbfab1b8-375b-42e7-a970-0213b4e01654

Vocational English

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/english-language/vocational-english

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/english-language/vocational-english

/supporting/Pages/vocational-english.aspx

423f2cf8-77ad-4aa0-80d9-5b34a7f319ce

Competent English

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/english-language/competent-english

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/english-language/competent-english

/supporting/Pages/competent-english.aspx

141d5116-5bab-4acc-b776-5143b5acfce5

Proficient English

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/english-language/proficient-english

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/english-language/proficient-english

/supporting/Pages/proficient-english.aspx

1d68ee5b-acd4-4eb0-9cb2-087bec84c578

Superior English

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/english-language/superior-english

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/english-language/superior-english

/supporting/Pages/superior-english.aspx

29169b5a-8e59-4077-830a-f7edb4829cbb

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/biometrics

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/biometrics

/supporting/Pages/biometrics.aspx

f6e034e1-43b4-4027-b919-b94f475bb90b

Australian Immi App

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/biometrics/australian-immi-app

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/biometrics/australian-immi-app

/supporting/Pages/australian-immi-app.aspx

7148eb10-87d3-4c73-9fc4-b739ce25f25c

Providing accurate information

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/providing-accurate-information

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/providing-accurate-information

/supporting/Pages/false-misleading-info.aspx

4ddb7bca-675e-4c52-a05a-5f24b461c57d

Australian values

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/australian-values

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/australian-values

/support-subsite/Pages/Meeting-requirements/australian-values.aspx

6be7a9a1-23fe-42a8-a4e7-3f975a02b831

Identity

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/identity

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/identity

d3915bf5-1873-4e6b-9796-99097b55efc5

Biometric

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/identity/biometric

/help-support/meeting-our-requirements/identity/biometric

/redirect-subsite/Pages/Biometric-redirect.aspx

be19041f-b539-45c6-987a-24066aeb4f22

Who can help with your application?

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/who-can-help-with-your-application

/help-support/who-can-help-with-your-application

/support-subsite/Pages/Prepare your application/Overview.aspx

db4649f3-44ca-4fde-a522-f8888051baff

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/who-can-help-with-your-application/overview

/help-support/who-can-help-with-your-application/overview

a61ccf88-316c-4098-b48f-fcf1ca78bb85

Authorised recipients

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/who-can-help-with-your-application/authorised-recipents

/help-support/who-can-help-with-your-application/authorised-recipents

/support-subsite/Pages/Prepare your application/Get-help-with-your-application.aspx

586d0fca-50c6-44d9-9c8e-69faa56d07f5

Using a registered migration agent

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/who-can-help-with-your-application/using-a-migration-agent

/help-support/who-can-help-with-your-application/using-a-migration-agent

/support-subsite/Pages/Using-a-migration-agent.aspx

ab47d248-637a-40ed-8e88-aeac6dfb21ae

Exempt person

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/who-can-help-with-your-application/exempt-person

/help-support/who-can-help-with-your-application/exempt-person

/support-subsite/Pages/exempt-person.aspx

787642a6-c99f-46d5-83d4-1b70fef71336

Using a legal practitioner

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/who-can-help-with-your-application/using-a-legal-practitioner

/help-support/who-can-help-with-your-application/using-a-legal-practitioner

/support-subsite/Pages/legal-practitioner.aspx

bd2e1ea3-783a-40bd-86c3-5c5766213d6a

Applying online or on paper

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper

/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper

/support-subsite/Pages/Applying-online-or-paper/Overview.aspx

1299a847-e55e-48d9-a22e-7de0859968a3

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/overview

/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/overview

2191f0cc-6a22-44f1-a9d5-ff8455ee3f0a

Online

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online

/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online

077d390f-6ff8-4380-a704-c513503327a9

Create your ImmiAccount

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/create-your-immiaccount

/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/create-your-immiaccount

/support-subsite/Pages/Applying-online-or-paper/create-your-immiaccount.aspx

31214881-58d7-4ec8-94e3-d14acd677432

Access your ImmiAccount

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/access-your-immiaccount

/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/access-your-immiaccount

/support-subsite/Pages/Applying-online-or-paper/access-your-immiaccount.aspx

307bdaab-b682-4ec7-a451-515965b319b6

Manage your ImmiAccount

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/manage-your-immiaccount

/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/manage-your-immiaccount

/support-subsite/Pages/Applying-online-or-paper/manage-your-immiaccount.aspx

3b30c97b-1edb-4db2-b7e6-4e1cb414142a

Manage your organisation accounts

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/manage-your-organisation-accounts

/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/manage-your-organisation-accounts

/support-subsite/Pages/Applying-online-or-paper/manage-your-organisation-accounts.aspx

2acd29a2-6382-46e9-a01f-987381def898

Apply and manage your application

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/apply-and-manage-your-application

/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/apply-and-manage-your-application

/support-subsite/Pages/Applying-online-or-paper/apply-and-manage-your-application.aspx

ef5db0f6-3add-4d84-8453-46c63257d140

Attach documents to your application

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/attach-documents-to-your-application

/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/attach-documents-to-your-application

/support-subsite/Pages/Applying-online-or-paper/attach-documents-to-your-application.aspx

fe2e63f3-3416-4542-9368-6ec601aaf997

How to pay for online applications

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/how-to-pay

/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/how-to-pay

/support-subsite/Pages/Applying-online-or-paper/Applying-online-how-to-pay.aspx

c5bcdc3e-b763-4390-8ba8-ee6b8dd74291

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/after-you-apply

/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/after-you-apply

/support-subsite/Pages/Applying-online-or-paper/after-you-apply.aspx

68fd5c3b-82dd-4e91-9123-1737f22dfb65

Common issues and error messages

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/common-issues-and-error-messages

/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/common-issues-and-error-messages

/support-subsite/Pages/Applying-online-or-paper/common-issues-and-error-messages.aspx

e9aeb4a7-f4f5-4c39-a4a2-48a16fc44e52

Setting up Multi-factor Authentication (MFA) for ImmiAccount

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/mfa-for-immiaccount

/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/mfa-for-immiaccount

/support-subsite/Pages/Applying-online-or-paper/mfa-for-immiaccount.aspx

8b7ccc82-290a-400b-89c1-df5b4843ae22

Attach additional documents to visa applications in ImmiAccount

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/attach-additional-documents-form

/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/online/attach-additional-documents-form

/form-listing/Pages/attach-additional-documents-to-visa-applications-in-immiaccount.aspx

70b8f3fe-e92a-4fbf-8c4a-dabb134c4602

On paper

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/on-paper

/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/on-paper

/support-subsite/Pages/Applying-online-or-paper/Paper.aspx

a92d1f4a-400a-4f31-b4aa-94bf6ea704f6

Certified copy

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/on-paper/certified-copy

/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/on-paper/certified-copy

/support-subsite/Pages/certified-copy-how-to.aspx

b139e2a9-517e-4f9a-965a-2b0a158ad2c2

How to pay for paper applications

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/on-paper/how-to-pay

/help-support/applying-online-or-on-paper/on-paper/how-to-pay

/support-subsite/Pages/Applying-online-or-paper/Applying-paper-how-to-pay.aspx

de476152-0325-4933-abd5-0b928781a9b8

Visa scams

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/visa-scams

/support-subsite/Pages/Scams/Overview.aspx

ba2938a0-6b7c-4a86-9e14-067efdb70820

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/visa-scams/overview

/help-support/visa-scams/overview

783ec455-f3fb-4e84-b402-f03776f8cba3

How to avoid being scammed

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/visa-scams/what-you-need-to-know

/help-support/visa-scams/what-you-need-to-know

/support-subsite/Pages/Scams/What-you-need-to-know.aspx

617f291e-be2d-4810-9774-c2c0c9e985a3

Victim stories

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/visa-scams/victims-stories

/help-support/visa-scams/victims-stories

/support-subsite/Pages/Scams/Case-studies.aspx

2998864b-25f3-4760-ba43-c46bd09fa223

Reporting

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/visa-scams/reporting

/help-support/visa-scams/reporting

/support-subsite/Pages/Scams/Reporting.aspx

995190b5-43d9-4b67-96c9-2ca8d794f436

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/migrant-worker-protections

/help-support/migrant-worker-protections

/redirect-subsite/Pages/migrant-worker-protections-redirect.aspx

ae3f4997-8eb1-4dbd-8615-1156ee463349

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/contact-us

/contact-us-subsite/Pages/Overview.aspx

08e615b9-01ab-4e7c-aaeb-2154862c4635

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/contact-us/overview

/help-support/contact-us/overview

2156a688-185d-4d01-84a7-8e60ff6d9c83

Popular topics

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/contact-us/popular-online-services

/help-support/contact-us/popular-online-services

/redirect-subsite/Pages/popular-questions.aspx

5364d942-fcd5-42db-9f9d-16c97bd25040

Telephone

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/contact-us/telephone

/help-support/contact-us/telephone

/contact-us-subsite/Pages/Telephone.aspx

430f60dc-83c4-41ca-886d-96d059bff9d7

Offices and locations

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/contact-us/offices-and-locations

/help-support/contact-us/offices-and-locations

/contact-us-subsite/Pages/Offices-and-locations.aspx

1c00e66f-81df-47a4-af52-b56931f0cd1b

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/contact-us/offices-and-locations/offices-in-australia

/help-support/contact-us/offices-and-locations/offices-in-australia

/contact-us-subsite/Pages/Offices-in-Australia.aspx

1af934c7-781d-48d8-aa09-34fc89c7bdb9

COVID-19 instructions for attending a Departmental office in Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/contact-us/offices-and-locations/offices-in-australia/covid19-instructions-australia

/help-support/contact-us/offices-and-locations/offices-in-australia/covid19-instructions-australia

/redirect-subsite/Pages/covid19-instructions-australia.aspx

fc836baa-1352-421c-99ce-15dc4ede4951

Instructions for attending a departmental office in Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/contact-us/offices-and-locations/offices-in-australia/instructions-attending-departmental-office

/help-support/contact-us/offices-and-locations/offices-in-australia/instructions-attending-departmental-office

/contact-us-subsite/Pages/covid19-instructions-australia.aspx

53ec1ec6-08f6-49fc-ac5d-9dc69a99ae97

Outside Australia

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/contact-us/offices-and-locations/offices-in-australia/outside-australia

/help-support/contact-us/offices-and-locations/offices-in-australia/outside-australia

/contact-us-subsite/Pages/offices-outside-Australia.aspx

0ed83545-1f97-44ec-a7e0-e1267991491a

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/contact-us/offices-and-locations/offices-outside-australia

/help-support/contact-us/offices-and-locations/offices-outside-australia

3aeaa48b-9623-4994-88a8-0084ea7d434a

List of locations

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/contact-us/offices-and-locations/list

/help-support/contact-us/offices-and-locations/list

/contact-us-subsite/Pages/Contact-us-office-listview.aspx

e66857a3-149f-4b33-82ae-75f16546ee55

Lodging an application – refugee and humanitarian visas

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/contact-us/offices-and-locations/lodging-an-application-ref-and-hum-visas

/help-support/contact-us/offices-and-locations/lodging-an-application-ref-and-hum-visas

/contact-us-subsite/Pages/lodging-an-application-ref-and-hum-visas.aspx

798ce6a6-e3ea-4b12-9bb0-349f320c09b6

Contact Details Form – TPV ＆ SHEV Holders

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/contact-details-form-tpv-shev-holders

/help-support/contact-details-form-tpv-shev-holders

/support-subsite/Pages/contact-details-form-tpv-shev-holders.aspx

Contact Details Form – TPV & SHEV Holders

87ca3faa-b7bf-444c-a7f9-0b9f2304bfa5

Popular questions

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/popular-questions

/help-support/popular-questions

/support-subsite/Pages/popular-questions.aspx

799697b3-41f5-47f3-be27-30b366a4f5b4

Australian Government Migration Policy Changes

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/australian-government-migration-policy-changes

/help-support/australian-government-migration-policy-changes

/support-subsite/Pages/australian-government-migration-policy-changes.aspx

22aa0e5d-c80d-408f-86b8-c5abc0117273

Search

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/sitesearch

4465978c-4f0c-4076-a13a-b6032419df60

bve

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/bve

/redirect-subsite/Pages/bve-redirect.aspx

58547e6f-8fab-4a23-9af3-cc95a7a37c2d

News and media

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/news-media

/news-subsite/Pages/News-archive.aspx

7c61ddb5-e5e9-43df-810d-789f6bec4b98

Archive

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/news-media/archive

fb0216e0-5a00-4b6e-b58f-bf2e4e106f28

Article

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/news-media/archive/article

/news-media/archive/article

/news-subsite/Pages/News-page.aspx

3254aec1-6cf0-472f-871e-78f967c7715a

Title of qualification

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/title-of-qualification

~sitecollection/Pages/Title-of-qualification.aspx

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/Pages/Title-of-qualification.aspx

376dd901-53d2-46e5-92f2-b59536948e85

Aged Care Industry Labour Agreement

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/aged-care-labour-agreement

/aged-care-labour-agreement

/redirect-subsite/Pages/new-aged-care-industry-labour-agreement.aspx

5cb0bbdd-702e-4a6f-9741-a4da29fbf601

amep he

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/amep_he

/redirect-subsite/Pages/amep-he-redirect.aspx

4d3a8375-a06a-49af-82d4-812b87768165

amep hl

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/amep_hl

/redirect-subsite/Pages/amep-hl-redirect.aspx

2210a808-8ac9-4edd-b4bd-5bad03697b86

amep pe

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/amep_pe

/redirect-subsite/Pages/amep-pe-redirect.aspx

3f1d1c46-9809-4d09-8048-160ffad4b138

amep pl

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/amep_pl

/redirect-subsite/Pages/amep-pl-redirect.aspx

2be3e991-2b48-4b5e-9a18-4ac3129c5f0a

amep_e

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/amep_e

/redirect-subsite/Pages/amep-e-redirect.aspx

20f96372-d46a-4069-ad8d-da7666bf61f0

amep_l

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/amep_l

/redirect-subsite/Pages/amep-l-redirect.aspx

70408d15-cd42-4827-a980-fff01c715bcc

appts

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/appts

/redirect-subsite/Pages/instructions-for-attending-dept-office-in-aus.aspx

36924bd8-8582-4124-a057-76f9ecb5c440

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/australian-government-migration-policy-changes

/australian-government-migration-policy-changes

6d835605-b500-48ac-bb67-688525f004a2

Check twice, submit once

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/check-twice-submit-once

39e42de6-c84d-4915-b9a0-5fcec1625cf2

Applying for a family visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/check-twice-submit-once/applying-for-a-family-visa

/check-twice-submit-once/applying-for-a-family-visa

/check-twice-submit-once-subsite/Pages/applying-for-family-visa.aspx

94fafc02-1c9a-4f17-a996-2d92032fac18

Important information for your application

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/check-twice-submit-once/applying-for-a-family-visa/important-information-for-your-application

/check-twice-submit-once/applying-for-a-family-visa/important-information-for-your-application

/check-twice-submit-once-subsite/Pages/important-info-application.aspx

6b54262f-0121-42a3-b3fd-33416d28282e

Applying for a skilled visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/check-twice-submit-once/skilled-visa

/check-twice-submit-once/skilled-visa

/check-twice-submit-once-subsite/Pages/skilled-visa.aspx

ff637acf-9d1e-480e-ae7e-c28bdd82d043

Applying for a student visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/check-twice-submit-once/student-visa

/check-twice-submit-once/student-visa

/check-twice-submit-once-subsite/Pages/applying-student-visa.aspx

b84c35d6-1b09-453e-8f26-4d126fcab6dc

Applying for a visitor visa

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/check-twice-submit-once/visitor-visa

/check-twice-submit-once/visitor-visa

/check-twice-submit-once-subsite/Pages/applying-visitor-visa.aspx

5362e9c6-acc2-4279-b25f-03449b56951d

citizenshiptest

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/citizenshiptest

/redirect-subsite/Pages/citizenshiptest.aspx

a139a8b3-ecc8-4ebe-816a-3df7bf542e7a

covid19-ips-appts

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/covid19-ips-appts

/redirect-subsite/Pages/covid19-ips-appts-redirect.aspx

5650d786-2723-423e-9755-3f9ea8b8e938

Employer Hub

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/employing-overseas-workers

/employing-overseas-workers

0a2cb9ed-e7fc-4494-b733-a142415a46a4

Global Entry Program

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/gep

/redirect-subsite/Pages/global-entry-program-vanity.aspx

7140e197-512b-46ea-84be-f10de5d8b6be

Global Entry Program privacy notice

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/gep-privacy-notice

/redirect-subsite/Pages/gep-privacy-notice.aspx

4758880b-6e0c-4699-be95-38267805b5b4

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/global-talent-contact-form

/global-talent-contact-form

955b62af-f022-4e51-aa37-12ff9a76e565

MATES

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/MATES

/redirect-subsite/Pages/MATES.aspx

793d108f-2f91-4bc6-8b3a-77e400573f6d

nzpassport

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/nzpassport

/redirect-subsite/Pages/nzpassport.aspx

d8b8c6e8-0852-41cc-b142-6b1be155b0e5

pasifika

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/pasifika

/redirect-subsite/Pages/pasifika.aspx

7df92cf9-cd19-4e04-8ffa-76a3809500c8

PV applicant stories

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/pv-applicant-stories

/redirect-subsite/Pages/pv-applicant-stories.aspx

b5a11916-991a-4b5c-b6d6-776c136b5e03

RRV1

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/RRV1

/redirect-subsite/Pages/RRV1-redirect-page.aspx

5bfa2de0-52d9-49e0-9110-d651a41ddd81

RRV2

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/RRV2

/redirect-subsite/Pages/RRV2-redirect-page.aspx

a6ec3e35-22a3-40c1-b02d-3c3eb001263b

Status resolution

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/status-resolution

/redirect-subsite/Pages/status-resolution-campaign.aspx

4a1c5ef1-be81-4740-9608-8239802bd3b9

united states global entry program

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/united-states-global-entry-program

/united-states-global-entry-program

a0259e53-b9de-4046-b6d7-6a907e24664e

VEVO1

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/VEVO1

/redirect-subsite/Pages/VEVO1-redirect.aspx

1fde3ad2-64a7-4a36-97b5-22e0f395ae1c

VEVO2

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/VEVO2

/redirect-subsite/Pages/VEVO2-redirect.aspx

5192e16b-46b7-48dc-9bbb-8038bc285ab3

Visa scams redirect

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/visascams

/redirect-subsite/Pages/visa-scams-redirect.aspx

f0ab8238-aebb-42d7-8c92-657b7410ddb4

WHM Form redirect

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/working-holiday-maker-application-enquiry-form

/working-holiday-maker-application-enquiry-form

d7519141-e345-4a51-8d5f-ee5e8c749634

working in agriculture

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/working-in-agriculture

/redirect-subsite/Pages/working-in-agriculture.aspx

6a86ed8c-20f0-4661-99b4-40aea20ea746

https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/working-in-australia

189 visa landing page banner

We prioritise applications for the Skilled – Independent (subclass 189) visa (Points-tested stream) under Ministerial Direction No. 122 . We are currently processing applications that were lod ged in or before: June 2026 – Construction, Healt hcare, Teaching, Agriculture, Aquaculture, Fishing, and Resources sectors, or in Australia's law enforcement and defence interests. June 2026 – Visa applications where the primary applicant was in Australia at the time they lodged their application. November 2025 – Visa applications where the primary applicant was outside of Australia at the time they lodged their application and whose application is not combined with another person’s application at any time. November 2025 – All other visa applications from applicants who were outside Australia when they applied. Please note: While the Department transitions to the new processing priorities under Ministerial Direction No. 122 , published allocation dates and processing timeframes may fluctuate. Some timeframes may temporarily increase as applications are reprioritised.

491 visa page banner

We prioritise applications for the Skilled Work Regional (Provisional) (subclass 491) visa under Ministerial Direction No. 122 . We are currently processing applications that were lodged in or before: March 2025 – Construction, Healthcare, Teaching, Agriculture, Aquaculture, Fishing, and Resources sectors, or in Australia's law enforcement and defence interests. March 2025 – Visa applications where the primary applicant was in Australia at the time they lodged their application. February 2025 – Visa applications where the primary applicant was outside of Australia at the time they lodged their application and whose application is not combined with another person’s application at any time. February 2025 – All other visa applications from applicants who were outside Australia when they applied. Please note: While the Department transitions to the new processing priorities under Ministerial Direction No. 122 , published allocation dates and processing timeframes may fluctuate. Some timeframes may temporarily increase as applications are reprioritised.

191 visa page banner

We prioritise applications for the Permanent Residence (Skilled Regional) (subclass 191) visa under Ministerial Direction No. 122 . We are currently processing applications that were lodged in or before: February 2026 – Visa applications where the primary applicant was in Australia at the time they lodged their application. March 2026 – Visa applications where the primary applicant was outside of Australia at the time they lodged their application and whose application is not combined with another person’s application at any time. January 2026 – All other visa applications from applicants who were outside Australia when they applied. For this visa, you must provide notices of assessment issued by the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) for three income years out of the five years of your eligible visa. If you or any of your family members owe money to the ATO, provide evidence you have paid it back or have an approved payment plan in place to prevent processing delays.

190 visa page banner

We prioritise applications for the Skilled – Nominated (subclass 190) visa under Ministerial Direction No. 122 . We are currently processing applications that were lodged in or before: March 2026 – Construction, Healthcare, Teaching, Agriculture, Aquaculture, Fishing, and Resources sectors, or in Australia's law enforcement and defence interests. January 2026 – Visa applications where the primary applicant was in Australia at the time they lodged their application. February 2025 – Visa applications where the primary applicant was outside of Australia at the time they lodged their application and whose application is not combined with another person’s application at any time. February 2025 – All other visa applications from applicants who were outside Australia when they applied. Please note: While the Department transitions to the new processing priorities under Ministerial Direction No. 122 , published allocation dates and processing timeframes may fluctuate. Some timeframes may temporarily increase as applications are reprioritised.

Student visa 500 & 590 changes

Changes to Student visa application rules From 2 October 2026, there are new rules for Student visas (subclass 500) and Student Guardian visas (subclass 590). The rules change who can apply for and be granted a visa while in Australia, and whether family members can be included in a Student visa application. For an overview of the changes, visit the Student visa changes information page . Make sure you know how the new rules affect you before making visa, study, travel or relocation plans.

Skills in Demand 482 processing priorities

Skilled visa income thresholds have increased in line with changes to annual Average Weekly Ordinary Time Earnings. For more information see Annual indexation of skilled visa income thresholds from 1 July 2026 . 
 We prioritise visa applications for the Skills in Demand (subclass 482) visa under Ministerial Direction 121 . We are currently processing visa applications that were lodged in: February 2026 – Construction, Healthcare, Teaching, Agriculture, Aquaculture, Fishing, and Resources sectors, or in Australia's law enforcement and defence interests. July 2026 – Visa applications in the Specialist Skills stream. January 2026 – Visa applications from applicants who were in Australia at the time they lodged their application. October 2025 – Visa applications where the primary applicant was outside of Australia at the time they lodged their application and whose application is not combined with another person’s application at any time. October 2025 – All other visa applications from applicants who were outside Australia when they applied. Please note: While the Department transitions to the new processing priorities under Ministerial Direction 121, published allocation dates and processing timeframes may fluctuate. Some timeframes may temporarily increase as applications are reprioritised.

Employer Sponsored Regional 494 processing priorities

Skilled visa income thresholds have increased in line with changes to annual Average Weekly Ordinary Time Earnings. For more information see Annual indexation of skilled visa income thresholds from 1 July 2026 . 
 We prioritise visa applications for the Skilled Employer Sponsored Regional (Provisional) (SESR) (subclass 494) visa under Ministerial Direction 122 . We are currently processing visa applications that were lodged in: September 2025 – Construction, Healthcare, Teaching, Agriculture, Aquaculture, Fishing, and Resources sectors, or Australia's law enforcement and defence interests. September 2025 – Visa applications from applicants who were in Australia at the time they lodged their application. September 2025 – Visa applications where the primary applicant was outside of Australia at the time they lodged their application and whose application is not combined with another person’s application at any time. October 2025 – All other visa applications from applicants who were outside Australia at the time they lodged their application. Please note: While the Department transitions to the new processing priorities under Ministerial Direction 122, published allocation dates and processing timeframes may fluctuate. Some timeframes may temporarily increase as applications are reprioritised.

Subclass 186

Skilled visa income thresholds have increased in line with changes to annual Average Weekly Ordinary Time Earnings. For more information see Annual indexation of skilled visa income thresholds from 1 July 2026 . We prioritise visa applications for the Employer Nomination Scheme (subclass 186) visa under 
 Ministerial Direction 122 . We are currently processing visa applications that were lodged in: July 2025 – Construction, Healthcare, Teaching, Agriculture, Aquaculture, Fishing, and Resources sectors, or Australia's law enforcement and defence interests. March 2025 – Visa applications from applicants who were in Australia at the time they lodged their application. July 2024 – Visa applications where the primary applicant was outside of Australia at the time they lodged their application and whose application is not combined with another person’s application at anytime. July 2024 – All other visa applications from applicants who were outside Australia at the time they lodged their application. Please note: While the Department transitions to the new processing priorities under Ministerial Direction 122, published allocation dates and processing timeframes may fluctuate. Some timeframes may temporarily increase as applications are reprioritised.

MFA to SkillSelect

The next invitation round for the Skilled Independent (subclass 189) visa is expected to be held by 31 October 2026. Please ensure your Expression of Interest is up to date and that all the information you have provided is accurate.

High volume of WHM visa applications

We are normalising processing timeframes for most WHM visa applications. The average processing time is expected to be around three months. Do not book flights or make travel, work or study commitments until we grant your visa.

Anyone can learn English for free with the new AMEPOnline app available on the App Store or Google Play .

Discussion Paper: Reforming Australia's Settlement Grants Programs September 2026

A consultation process is currently underway on the future design of settlement support services that assist migrants and humanitarian entrants to build social connections, navigate key transitions and participate economically in Australia. Visit Discussion Paper: Reforming Australia's Settlement Grants Programs .

Form Banners - SharePoint Migration Project

The Immigration website will undergo scheduled maintenance between 14 and 18 September 2026. Forms saved as drafts during this period may not be retained. To avoid losing your information, please submit any draft forms before 14 September 2026 or save your responses separately for future use.

ETA-app

Important information about the ETA You must use the Australian ETA App (the ETA App) to apply for an ETA if you hold an ETA-eligible passport . For more information, see our Step by step guide . If you are unable to use the ETA App, you can apply for another suitable visa through ImmiAccount . European passport holders may be eligible for an eVisitor (subclass 651) visa . Australian permanent residents should see Overseas travel as a permanent resident . Australian citizens are ineligible to apply for an ETA. For more information, see Entering Australia .

Visitor visa - process app faster

Find out what you can do to help us process your application faster . Australian permanent residents should see Overseas travel as a permanent resident . Australian citizens are ineligible to apply for an eVisitor visa. For more information, see Entering Australia .

DFV 000 emergency banner

Call 000 if you are in immediate danger. For 24/7 counselling and support, call 1800 737 732 to speak to 1800RESPECT .

WHV Caps

We regularly review and update this page. The date of the most recent update is shown in the footer.

Processing delays for some Temporary Activity (subclass 408

There are processing delays for some Temporary Activity (subclass 408) visa applications in the Research Activities stream. If you have lodged an application, there is no need to follow up with us at this stage unless your circumstances have changed or we ask you for more information. We will be in touch when the application is decided or if further action is required. For more information, see About this visa .

pev-192-ballot

The 2026-27 Pacific Engagement visa ballot for Pacific island and Timor-Leste nationals opened on 1 July 2026 and closed on 29 July 2026. Random ballot selections for the 2026-27 program year will occur after the ballot has closed.

Skilled visa income thresholds

Skilled visa income thresholds are increasing in line with changes to annual Average Weekly Ordinary Time Earnings. For more information see Annual indexation of skilled visa income thresholds from 1 July 2026 .

Income requirement for the Subclass 191 visa

You must provide notices of assessment issued by the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) for three income years out of the five years of your eligible visa. If you or any of your family members owe money to the ATO, provide evidence you have paid it back or have an approved payment plan in place to prevent processing delays. We process Skilled visa applications according to Ministerial Direction No. 105 . We are now processing subclass 191 visa applications lodged from January 2026 . See Skilled visa processing priorities .

visitor visa holder - Restricting visa hopping to the Student visa program.

Find out what you can do to help us process your application faster . You may be eligible for a Subclass 601 Electronic Travel Authority or Subclass 651 eVisitor . Check if you are eligible at Explore visa options . If you are a Papua New Guinean passport holder, find out more about new visa arrangements from 1 July 2026

Community Support Program (CSP)

We only grant a certain number of visas under the Community Support Program (CSP) every year. The CSP is overcapacity and processing may take up to 8 years. All applicants should expect lengthy processing times. To manage this, we have set a limit on how many applicants an Approved Proposing Organisation (APO) can lodge from Expressions of Interest (EOIs) they received befo re the lodgement pause. We have also asked APOs to pause accepting EOIs from new applicants.

workplace justice pilot

In July 2024, the Government introduced new reporting protections to encourage early reporting and resolution of workplace exploitation claims. For more information, see Strengthening Reporting Protections .

Subclass 500 alert

Find out what you can do to help us process your application faster - Applying for a student visa .

BIIP refunds and closure

This visa closed to new applications on 1 July 2021. The Business Innovation and Inv estment Program (BIIP) is closed as of 31 July 2024. Applications made before this date will still be processed. You may be entitled to a refund of your Visa Application Charge for Significant Business History or Venture Capital Entrepreneur stream if you withdrew your application on or after 31 July 2024. For more information see BIIP closure and refunds .

Treaty stream ballot dates 2025-26 program year

The Treaty stream (Tuvalu) ballot closed on 1 June 2026. Random ballot selections for the 2026-27 program year will occur from 9 June 2026 – see Ballot country status .

Visitor visa (subclass 600) Frequent traveller stream

Find out what you can do to help us process your application faster . You may need to provide biometrics at an Australian Biometric Collection Centre (ABCC). For more information, visit Biometrics .

visitor 600 visa Sponsored Family stream

Find out what you can do to help us process your application faster . You should check if a Visitor (subclass 600) visa in the Tourist stream might better suit you. The Visitor visa (subclass 600) lets you holiday in Australia to see family and friends and does not need a sponsor.

Visitor visa holders -approved destination and family sponsored - restricting visa hopping

Find out what you can do to help us process your application faster .

Visitor visa (subclass 600) Business Visitor stream

Find out what you can do to help us process your application faster . You may be eligible for a Subclass 601 Electronic Travel Authority or Subclass 651 eVisitor . Check if you are eligible at Explore visa options .

Visitor visa - Covid-19 & VAC

PEV visa pages

If we select you in the ballot, you have 120 days to submit your application. If you miss the deadline, we will not accept your application. It may take time to find employment in Australia. If you do not have an offer of employment when you apply, provide it as soon as you can after you apply. We have a free service to connect you with employers to help you meet the visa job requirement. This service will also help you prepare for life in Australia. Refer to The Pacific Engagement visa Support Service .

tuvalu-treaty

If we select you in the ballot, you have 60 days to submit your visa application. If you miss the deadline we will not accept your application. The Australian Government is providing free support for Treaty stream (Tuvalu) participants. Refer to the Falepili Mobility Pathway (Treaty stream visa) page .

ImmiAccount application import for paper Parent visa applications

Parent visa subclasses 103, 143, 804 and 864 now must lodge their visa application online using ImmiAccount. Temporary Contributory Parent visa applications must continue to apply on paper.

Israel visa

People impacted by the conflict in Iran can find more information on Iran Visa Information . People impacted by conflict in the State of Palestine or Israel can find more information on Hamas-Israel Conflict: Visa Support and financial assistance .

Training visa updated requirements

Training visa (subclass 407 applicants must now have an approved sponsor and nomination before they can apply for a visa. If you want to sponsor someone on a Training visa (subclass 407) we must have approved your nomination and sponsorship application before they can apply for their visa. For more information about these changes, see Changes to Training visa (subclass 407) application requirements .

Global Special Humanitarian visa (subclass 202)

From 1 July 2025, you must use ImmiAccount if you are proposing a person, or applying for, a Refugee and Humanitarian visa. You must complete the proposal first and use your transaction reference number (TRN) within 60 days to apply for the visa in ImmiAccount. For more information, see the step-by-step guide .

Refugee 200 Banner

From 29 November 2025, you must use ImmiAccount to apply for a Refugee and Humanitarian visa. This doesn’t apply if you are submitting an application under the Community Support Program.

Global special humanitarian immiaccount

Mates 403 alert

You can only apply for this visa if randomly selected in the MATES ballot and you have a Notification of Selection letter. You must have graduated on or after 01 November 2023 with an elig ible qualification from a Top 100 institution on the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) India Rankings Overall 2024 List . Refer to the full list of visa and eligibility requirements .

Repealed visas

This visa is closed to new applications.

New Zealand Citizen Family Relationship visa

We strongly encourage you to undertake any required health examinations and character checks before lodging their application. Lodging a complete application assists with quicker processing times. See Step by Step – Gather your documents. From 23 July 2025, applicants for New Zealand Citizen Family Relationship (subclass 461) visa applicants can import their paper application into ImmiAccount. For more information, see Update to ImmiAccount — new online services for paper-based Child, Other Family, Former Residents, and New Zealand Citizen Family Relationship visa applications .

Former Resident (subclass 151)

From 23 July 2025, applicants for Former Resident (subclass 151) visa applicants can import their paper application into ImmiAccount. For more information, see Update to ImmiAccount — new online services for paper-based Child, Other Family, Former Residents, and New Zealand Citizen Family Relationship visa applications .

Other Family subclasses 114, 115, 116, 835, 836 and 838

From 23 July 2025, applicants for Other Family subclasses 114, 115, 116, 835, 836 and 838 can import their paper application into ImmiAccount. Some existing applications made outside of Australia before 25 June 2020 cannot be imported into ImmiAccount. For more information, see Update to ImmiAccount — new online services for paper-based Child, Other Family, Former Residents, and New Zealand Citizen Family Relationship visa applications .

Child visa subclasses 101, 102, 802, 445, 117 and 837

From 23 July 2025, applicants for Child visa subclasses 101, 102, 802, 445, 117 and 837 can import their paper application into ImmiAccount. Some existing applications made outside of Australia before 1 April 2020 cannot be imported into ImmiAccount. For more information, see Update to ImmiAccount — new online services for paper-based Child, Other Family, Former Residents, and New Zealand Citizen Family Relationship visa applications .

PDF forms - 929

From 25 November 2024, paper Form 929 - Change of contact and/or passport details will no longer be available to use. To find out how you can update your passport or contact details, visit C hange in your situation .

188 stream closed to applications

This stream closed to applications on 31 July 2024. We will continue to process applications made before this date. If you withdrew your application on or after 31 July 2024, a refund of the Visa Application Charge (VAC) is available. For details, visit the BIIP closure and refunds page.

132 visa closed to new applicants

This stream closed to applications on 1 July 2021. We will continue to process applications made before this date. If you withdrew your application on or after 31 July 2024, a refund of the Visa Application Charge (VAC) is available. For details, visit the BIIP closure and refunds page.

Table search - Refresh alert

If you experience problems loading this page, please clear your browser cache and refresh your browser (Ctrl and F5). If you continue to experience issues loading this page please submit feedback.

Repealed visa - closure of pandemic 408

This visa is closed to new applicants. The COVID-19 Pandemic event visa closed to all applications on 1 February 2024. For more information, see Closure of the Pandemic Event . We will continue to assess all applications lodged before 1 February 2024.

866 - Protection visa for asylum seekers

Big changes are here to stop people misusing protection visas. If you are thinking about applying for protection you can get free legal advice . To find out if a Protection visa is right for you or someone you know try our online tool . For more information, see Protection visas are for genuine asylum seekers .

Changes in your situation - 929

From 25 November 2024, paper Form 929 - Change of contact and/or passport details will no longer be available to use. Click on Passport details have changed, or Personal details have changed below for mor e information on how you can update your details with us.

Transit visa 771

If you will be in Australia for less than 8 hours and you are not leaving the airport you may not need to apply for a visa before you travel. Check if you are eligible to transit without a visa .

Important changes to immigration medical examinations

Special consideration for children born and ordinarily resident in Australia that do not meet the health requirement under Public Interest Criteria 4005 and 4007 have come into effect on 16 October 2024.

Closure of the BIIP

The Business Innovation and Investment Program (BIIP) is closed as of 31 July 2024. Applications made before this date will still be processed. You may be entitled to a refund of your Business Innovation and Investment (subclass 188) Visa Application Charge (VAC) for the Business Innovation, Investor, Significant Investor or Entrepreneur streams if you withdrew your application on or after 31 July 2024. For more information see BIIP closure and refunds .

Disclaimer - You had a baby

If you have had a child you should tell us as soon as possible.

visitor-600

TPV/SHEV update

Free visa application assistance is available to people who are eligible to apply for a Resolution of Status (RoS) visa. If you hold a Temporary Protection visa (TPV) or Safe Haven Enterprise visa (SHEV) you can contact the legal service provider in your state or territory. For more information see the RoS visa fact sheet . The Department of Home Affairs does not charge a fee to fast-track a visa. If you are offered this service, it is a scam. T o apply for a RoS, you must apply before your TPV or SHEV expires. If your visa expires, you will become unlawful and may lose access to government services.

Important information about the Approved Destination Status (ADS) stream

Important information about the Approved Destination Status (ADS) stream This visa stream is only for eligible citizens from the People’s Republic of China visiting Australia on a tour organised by an approved travel agent. You need to contact a registered Approved Destination Status scheme travel agent to ask for them to apply for this visa on your behalf. For further information see our Step by step guide . Find out what you can do to help us process your application faster .

Travel movement record

All Citizenship by Conferral applicants We are receiving a higher than usual number of requests for international movement records. When entering your travel dates, dates of first arrival or visa grant dates, an estimated date will be accepted and a processing officer will confirm exact dates within our systems as required after you lodge your application. See Become an Australian citizen (by conferral) Permanent residents or New Zealand citizens .

189 visa permanently closed to new applications on 1 July 2023

The Skilled Independent (subclass 189) (New Zealand stream) visa permanently closed to new applications on 1 July 2023. For more information see Recent changes .

189 visa permanently closed to new applications on 1 July 2023 - 2nd version

The Skilled Independent (subclass 189) (New Zealand stream) visa permanently closed to new applications on 1 July 2023. For more information see 
 Recent changes .

189 visa landing page

The Skilled Independent (subclass 189) (New Zealand stream) visa is currently closed to new applications and will permanently close to new applications on 1 July 2023. For more information see Recent changes .

fast track process- shev

Certain TPV holders and former holders may be eligible to apply for a permanent Resolution of Status (RoS) visa (subclass 851) . Only TPV and SHEV holders who first arrived in Australia on or after 14 February 2023 are eligible to apply for a subsequent TPV or SHEV.

Online lodgement webform availability from 1 August 2022

From 1 August 2022, the option to apply for a Bridging visa A (BVA), B (BVB) and C (BVC) in-person or via a paper form will no longer be available. Applications for a Bridging visa A, B or C mu st be made online via ImmiAccount or the online webform .

188 Premium Investor stream - closed

This stream is closed to new applications

subclass-124-closed

This visa is closed to new applications. To apply for the Distinguished Tale nt visa see Global Talent visa (subclass 858) .

Beta - Bringing Someone

We are working to improve the layout and content of this page. Please ensure you review the 
 conditions of use as this content is under development. We welcome your feedback to help us improve the user experience. In the meantime, further information about your topic can be found at 
 Temporary Activity visa (subclass 408) , 
 Temporary Work (International Relations) visa (subclass 403) or 
 Training visa (subclass 407)

Repealed 405 - 410

This visa is closed to new applicants The Pathway to permanent residence for retirement visa holders announced by Government as part of the 2018-19 Budget commenced on 17 November 2018. Further details, including eligibility requirements, processing times and visa application charges can be found at Pathway to permanent residence for Retirees .

Accredited community language

You must have been accredited at the paraprofessional level or above for interpreting or translating in a language they offer accreditation in by the National Accreditation Authority for Translators and Interpreters .

Accredited-community-language

Actively operating

For a main business to be assessed as actively operating the applicant must provide evidence of business activity of a repetitive, continuous and permanent nature.

Adult Migrant English Language Program (AMEP)

The Adult Migrant English Language Program (AMEP) provides up to 510 hours of free English language tuition to eligible migrants from the skilled, family and humanitarian visa streams, to help them learn basic English to assist with their settlement in Australia. For further information about the AMEP, visit 
 Adult Migrant English Program .

Adult-Migrant-English-Language-Program-(AMEP)-

Adverse information

Adverse information is unfavourable information that could impact on your suitability as an approved sponsor.

Annual income

Annual income means how much money you make in a year. See details on what you can include as an evidence of annual income.

Applicant

An applicant is a person who is applying for a visa or for citizenship.

Biometrics are features of your body that can be used to identify you. They include: fingerprints an image of your face We might collect your biometrics during the application process for a visa, or for other services. These biometrics are types of ‘personal identifiers’, a term used in the Migration Act 1958 , the Migration Regulations 1994 and the Australian Citizenship Act 2007 . 
 See details

Bogus documents

A document that the Minister reasonably suspects is a document that: 
 
 purports to have been, but was not, issued in respect of the person, or is counterfeit or has been altered by a person who does not have authority to do so, or was obtained because of a false or misleading statement, whether or not made knowingly

British subject

Includes a person who was, immediately prior to the date of commencement of this Act, entitled in Australia or a Territory to all political and other rights, powers and privileges to which a natural-born British subject was then entitled.

Business visitor activities

A business visitor can: make general business or employment enquiries investigate, negotiate, sign or review a business contract undertake an activity as part of an official government visit take part in a conference, trade fair or seminar. The organisers cannot pay you to take part Business visitors cannot: work for or provide services to a person, business or organisation sell goods or services to the public

Business-visitor-activities

Cap and cease

Cap and cease means when a cap has been reached for a particular visa class: work on all applications which have not been processed to decision stops the files are closed application fees are refunded These applications are treated as if they have not been submitted.

Capping and queueing

Capping means a limited number of the visa will be granted each 
 Migration Program year . Once we reach this number, no more visas will be granted that year.

A certified copy is a copy of an original document that has been confirmed to be a true copy of the document by an authorised person. See in details .

Child

Your child is your: biological child 
 stepchild adopted child

De facto

A de facto relationship is one where you and your partner are not legally married to each other but: you are committed to a shared life excluding all others; and your relationship is genuine and continuing; and you live together; or do not live separately and apart on a permanent basis; and you are not related by family. A de facto relationship can be with someone of the same or different sex.

Dependant

A dependant is: someone who has wholly or substantially relied on mostly you for a substantial period of time to meet their basic needs of food, clothing and shelter someone who has wholly or substantially relied on you for a substantial period of time for financial support because they can't work due to a mental or physical disability

Dependent child

Some visas allow you to include a dependent child in your application. See details to see if a child qualifies to be a dependent child.

DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) testing compares genetic material from 2 or more people to see if they are biologically related. DNA test results can prove a biological relationship exists. For example, between a parent and child, or siblings. Usually genetic material from a mouth swab or blood sample is tested.

Eligible investments

Must be owned for the purpose of producing a return in the form of income or capital gain, and not for personal use and is one or more of the following: an ownership interest in a business cash on deposit stocks or bonds real estate gold or silver bullion

Eligible New Zealand citizen

An eligible New Zealand citizen is a New Zealand citizen who is a protected SCV (Special Category visa – subclass 444) holder within the meaning of section 7 of the 
 Social Security Act 1991 (SSA). You are a protected SCV holder at a particular time, if you: were physically in Australia on 26 February 2001 as the holder of an SCV were not in Australia on 26 February 2001 but were in Australia for 365 days (or more) between 26 February 1999 and 25 February 2001 (inclusive) and returned to Australia after 26 February 2001, or are otherwise a ‘protected SCV holder’ under section 7(2B), 7(2C) or 7(2D) of the SSA - in which case you must provide us with written confirmation from Centrelink that you are a protected SCV holder .

Eligible-New-Zealand-citizen

Eligible student visa

An eligible student visa is a student visa other than a: visa granted to a Foreign Affairs student or Defence Student visa granted on the basis of the applicant being a member of the family unit of the holder of a student visa .

Employer

Your employer is the person or an organisation that pays you to do work for them. We identify employers by their Australian Business Number (ABN).

False and misleading

Information that is false or misleading in a material particular means information that is: false or misleading at the time it is given and relevant to any of the criteria the Minister may consider when making a decision on an application, whether or not the decision is made because of that information

Finally determined

The meaning of finally determined depends on your merits review rights

Financial institution

A body corporate that, as part of its normal activities, takes money on deposit and makes advances of money: under a regulatory regime: governed by the central bank (or its equivalent) of the country in which the body corporate operates; and that the Minister is satisfied provides effective prudential assurance; and in a way that the Minister is satisfied complies with effective prudential assurance requirements.

Former relationships

A former relationship is a previous marriage or de facto partnership.

HAP ID

The HAP is a health case identifier (HAP ID) for eMedical, our electronic health processing system.

Immigration clearance

When you arrive in Australia you will be in immigration clearance. Your identity and travel documents will be checked by a clearance authority as part of the immigration clearance process. 
 Once the clearance authority confirms your identity and that you hold a valid visa, you are formally allowed to enter Australia. You might be refused entry to Australia if you don't meet immigration clearance requirements.

Immigration detention

We can detain you under the Migration Act 1958 if you are here unlawfully.

International surrogacy is an arrangement between commissioning parents in Australia and a surrogate mother who lives in an another country.

Judicial review

Judicial review is when a court reviews how a decision was made. This is to determine if there were any legal errors that could lead to the decision being invalid.

Long-term partner relationship

You are in a long-term partner relationship if you and another person have been in a relationship, each as the 
 spouse or 
 de facto partner of the other, that has continued: for not less than 2 years and there is a 
 dependent child (other than a 
 step-child ) from this relationship, or in any other case, for not less than 3 years

Long-term-partner-relationship

Main business

You can nominate a main business that you actively operate for profit by providing goods and services to the public. You must demonstrate an acceptable level of ownership in the business and direct involvement in its operations, you may also need to provide evidence of business turnover.

Medical Officer of the Commonwealth

A medical Officer of the Commonwealth (MOC) is a registered medical practitioner appointed by the Department of Home Affairs. They assess whether applicants meet the health requirements under the Migration Regulations 1994. They may work directly for the Department, or be employed by the Migration Medical Services Provider.

Medical-Officer-of-the-Commonwealth

Members of the family unit

For general visa purposes, you are a member of the main applicant's family unit if you are: the main applicant's spouse or de facto partner the main applicant's 
 child , or their part ner's child, who is not engaged, married or in a de facto relationship and is: aged under 18 years aged 18 to 23 years and dependent on the main applicant or the main applicant's partner aged 23 years or older and dependent on the main applicant or the main applicant's partner due to a partial or total physical or mental disability. the dependent 
 child of the child above 
 Note: the main applicant’s parent are not considered a member of the family unit. For certain visas, you may be required to be a member of the family unit of a person who is not the main applicant.

Members-of-the-family-unit

Migration Program year

Australia's Migration Program is set annually. The Migration Program year, like the Australian financial year, runs from 1 July to 30 June.

Mistake was made by the applicant

For a refund of a visa application charge - a mistake made by the applicant is when the applicant has: applied for the wrong visa class and/or visa stream, or indicated the wrong visa duration in the visa application process, and we have received a new application.

Mistake-was-made-by-the-applicant

Mistake was made by the department

For a refund of a visa application charge - mistake made by the department is where advice given by the department has led the applicant to apply for a visa that: they did not need they did not, or would not, be eligible for was the wrong type of visa, or was a system error at time of lodgement.

Mistake-was-made-by-the-department

Near relative

For remaining relative visas, your near relative is your: parent or step-parent partner's parent or step-parent sibling or step-sibling child or stepchild who is 18 or older and not dependent on you child or stepchild who is under 18 and not in your or your partner's daily care and control We don't consider how much contact you have with someone when we decide whether they are your near relative.

Offshore resource activities

An offshore resource activity is linked to 2 pieces of legislation, the Offshore Petroleum and Greenhouse Gas Storage Act 2006 and the Offshore Minerals Act 1994 . An operation or activity performed under either of these Acts is an offshore resources activity unless excluded by a determination made by the Minister.

Offshore-resource-activities

Ordinarily resident

We may consider you to be ordinarily resident in Australia if your permanent home is in Australia. This is even if you are temporarily absent from Australia. You cannot be ordinarily resident in Australia if you are in Australia for a special purpose and you were: in Australia as a child of foreign diplomats or administrative staff who were entitled to diplomatic privileges and immunities in Australia as a child of United Nations staff posted to Australia removed from Australia after breaching visa conditions or having had a visa cancelled.

Ordinarily resident - 10 year rule

If you are born in Australia and claiming to be an Australian citizen on your tenth birthday, you must show that you were ordinarily resident in Australia throughout the first 10 years from your birth. We will consider the circumstances of your whole family to determine if you were ordinarily resident throughout the 10-year period. We may consider you to be ordinarily resident in Australia if throughout the first 10 years from your birth, your permanent home is in Australia. This is even if you are temporarily absent from Australia. We cannot consider you to be ordinarily resident for the 10-year period, if you were in Australia for a special purpose and you were: in Australia as a child of foreign diplomats or administrative staff who were entitled to diplomatic privileges and immunities in Australia as a child of United Nations staff posted to Australia removed from Australia with your family after breaching visa conditions or having had a visa cancelled.

Ordinarily-resident---10-year-rule

Ownership interest

Ownership interest in relation to a business, means an interest in the business as: a shareholder in a company that carries on the business, or a partner in a partnership that carries on the business, or the sole proprietor of the business including such an interest held indirectly through one or more interposed companies, partnerships or trusts

Panel clinic

A panel clinic is a clinic that can conduct health examinations for Australian immigration purposes. Most panel clinics can take x-rays as well. Find your nearest panel clinic at 
 our locations .

Panel physician

A panel physician is a doctor or radiologist the Australian Government has approved as a member of the immigration panel. Panel physicians perform health examinations for visa applicants who apply for a visa outside Australia.

Partner

Your partner is your spouse or de facto partner of the same or opposite sex. You can be: 
 in a married relationship in a 
 De facto relationship We will recognise only 1 partnership.

Payer

For a refund of a visa application charge - payments are generally made to the person who originally paid the visa application charge (VAC). We call this person the payer . The original payer is recorded in the payment section of the VAC receipt.

Permanent resident

The definition of permanent resident varies for visa or citizenship purposes.

Personal identifiers

‘Personal Identifiers’ are defined in section 5A of the Migration Act 1958 and in section 10 of the Australian Citizenship Act 2007 as any of the following (including in digital form): fingerprints or handprints of a person (including those taken using paper and ink or digital livescanning technologies) a measurement of a person’s height and weight a photograph or other image of a person’s face an iris scan a person’s signature any other identifier prescribed by the regulations (except an identifier the obtaining of which would involve the carrying out of an intimate forensic procedure within the meaning of section 23WA of the Crimes Act 1914 ).

Police certificates

Police certificates are official documents issued by a nation's law enforcement body.

Primary applicant

In a visa application the primary applicant is the person seeking to satisfy the primary criteria for grant of the visa.

Priority resettlement country

Priority-resettlement-country

Qualifying business

Qualifying business means an enterprise that: is operated for the purpose of making profit through the provision of goods, services or goods and services (other than the provision of rental property) to the public; and is not operated primarily or substantially for the purpose of speculative or passive investment.

Queueing

Recognised standard

The meaning of recognised standard depends on the visa you are applying for.

Relative

Your relative is: your partner, child, parent, brother, sister, stepchild, step-parent, stepbrother or stepsister your grandparent, grandchild, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew or step equivalent

Relevant offence

A relevant offence is an offence against a law, either in Australia or overseas, involving: violence, including murder, assault, sexual assault or the threat of violence harassment, molestation, intimidation or stalking the breach of an apprehended violence or similar order firearms or other dangerous weapons people smuggling human trafficking, slavery or slavery-like practices (including forced marriage), kidnapping or unlawful confinement attempting to commit any of these offences aiding, abetting, counsellin g or procuring such offences .

Responsible parent

Under the Australian Citizenship Act 2007 , you are the responsible parent of a child if: you are the child's parent, unless a Family Court order has removed your parental responsibility the child is to live with you under a parenting order, whether you are their parent or not you have parental responsibility for the child's long-term or day-to-day care, welfare and development under a parenting order, whether you are their parent or not you have sole or joint guardianship or custody of the child under an Australian or foreign law, including by adoption, operation of law, court order or otherwise.

Round trip cruise

A round trip cruise is one that: starts and ends in Australia lasts up to 30 days. The time you spend on a round trip cruise counts as time in Australia for your visa, as long as: you remain a passenger during the cruise you do not go to a foreign country except for transit purposes it lasts no more than 30 days. Ask your cruise operator or travel agent if we consider your cruise to be a round trip cruise before embarking on your cruise. If your cruise has ‘round trip cruise’ status, we will treat the time that a person spends on a round trip cruise as if they were still in Australia for the purposes of their visa. A round trip cruise will not reset your stay period on your visa and you should check that you have sufficient time on your visa for the total time you intend to stay in Australia. If the cruise does not have round trip cruise status, you should check that you have a visa that will allow you to return to Australia, especially if your temporary visa has a single travel facility.

Secondary applicant

In a visa application, the secondary applicant is a member of the family unit of the primary applicant, such as their spouse or de facto partner and/or dependent children.

Settled

We consider you settled if you: have lived lawfully in Australia for a reasonable period (usually at least 2 years) and are an Au stralian citizen, Australian permanent resident or eligible New Zealand citizen In compassionate and compelling circumstances, we might consider Australian citizens to be settled after 3 months.

Sibling

Your sibling is someone who has at least one parent in common with you.

Significant criminal record

You have a significant criminal record in relation to a relevant offence(s) if you have been sentenced to: death or imprisonment for life a term of imprisonment of 12 months or more; or two or more terms of imprisonment, where the total of those terms is 12 months or more.

Significant-criminal-record

Significant medical condition

There are no diseases or health conditions that automatically mean you won't meet the health requirement. However, the diseases which most commonly result in permanent visa applicants failing the health requirement are: intellectual impairment HIV infection functional impairment renal disease or failure cancer

Significant-medical-condition

Spouse

A spouse is one of two people in a married relationship if they are married to each other under a marriage that is valid for the purposes of the Migration Act and: 
 they have a mutual commitment to a shared life as a married couple to the exclusion of all others; and the relationship between them is genuine and continuing; and they live together; 
 or do not live separately and apart on a permanent basis. A spouse can be someone of the same or different sex.

Stateless

A stateless person is a person who is not considered a national by any state under the operation of its law.

Stepchild

A stepchild is the child of your current or former partner. If the stepchild is the child of your former partner they must be under 18, and you must have either: an Australian parenting order that is in force, saying that you are to live with them and look after them guardianship or custody of the child under the law, Australian or otherwise

Some visas allow your eligible family members to apply to join you in Australia as subsequent entrants after you have been granted your visa.

Some temporary visas attract a subsequent temporary application charge. It is in addition to any other visa charges you pay when you lodge your visa.

Subsequent-temporary-application-charge

Substantial criminal record

A substantial criminal record is based on the length of a sentence imposed by a court of law.

Substantial-criminal-record

Substantive visa

A substantive visa is any visa that allows the visa holder to remain temporarily in Australia other than: a bridging visa a criminal justice or enforcement visa

Unnecessary at the time it was made

For a refund of a visa application charge - an application that was unnecessary at the time it was made is where the applicant did not need to apply for a visa to travel to, or stay in Australia.

Unnecessary-at-the-time-it-was-made

Usually resident

You are 'usually resident' at the place that you physically live (eat and sleep) and want to make your home.

Volunteer work

Volunteer work is work that: is unpaid (you can be provided with meals, accommodation or out-of-pocket living expenses) would not otherwise be done by an Australian for pay is short term is incidental to your visit to Australia is done for a not-for-profit organisation benefits the community

Work is performing an activity, in Australia , that a person would normally be remunerated for. This could be payment or some other form of reward. For further information on what activities are permitted on your visa, refer to 
 visa co nditions.

This is a test website (beta) 
 
 Please note that the website is in test phase and new content will be progressively added when available. We will continue to update the content and design based on public feedback.
 
 
Before proceeding, please take a moment to review the important legal information about the use of the test website.

External link 
 
 This is an external link.

{"popularsearch":[
 { "site":"/", "keywords":[ "Visa", "Citizenship", "Form 80", "Form 888"] },
 { "site":"/Visa-subsite", "keywords":[ "457", "600", "Business Visa", "Family Visa", "Visit Visa" ] },
 { "site":"/Changes-situation-subsite", "keywords":[ "Had a baby", "Passport changed", "Someone died" ] }
 ]
 }

{
 "searchresultmap":[
 { "contenttype":"Internet.VisaCondition.Item", "url":"/visas/already-have-a-visa/check-visa-details-and-conditions/see-your-visa-conditions?vcid=" },
 { "contenttype":"Internet.Location.Item", "url":"/help-support/contact-us/offices-and-locations/list?countryid=" },
 { "contenttype":"Internet.SkillAssessAuthority.Item", "url":"/visas/working-in-australia/skill-occupation-list?srckeyword=~Keyword~" },
 { "contenttype":"Internet.SkillCaveats.Item", "url":"/visas/working-in-australia/skill-occupation-list?srckeyword=~Keyword~" },
 { "contenttype":"Internet.SkillOccupation.Item", "url":"/visas/working-in-australia/skill-occupation-list?srckeyword=~Keyword~" },
 { "contenttype":"Internet.LabourAgreement.Item", "url":"/visas/employing-and-sponsoring-someone/sponsoring-workers/nominating-a-position/labour-agreements/list-of-current-labour-agreements?srckeyword=~Keyword~" },
 { "contenttype":"Internet.Glossary.Item", "url":"/help-support/glossary?gid=" }
 ]
 }

{
 "searchlistitemsdesc":[
 { "contenttype":"Internet.SkillAssessAuthority.Item", "description":"Skill Occupation List - visas are available to individuals who are qualified to work or train in an eligible skilled occupation in Australia" },
 { "contenttype":"Internet.SkillCaveats.Item", "description":"Skill Occupation List - visas are available to individuals who are qualified to work or train in an eligible skilled occupation in Australia" },
 { "contenttype":"Internet.SkillOccupation.Item", "description":"Skill Occupation List - visas are available to individuals who are qualified to work or train in an eligible skilled occupation in Australia" }
 ]
 }

{
"maincontentsource":"http://immigrationinternal.internet.zone",
"othercontentsource": ["http://borderforceinternal.internet.zone", "http://e9-homeaffairsinternal.internet.zone"],
 "sites": [{
 "title": "Immi",
 "url": "http://immigrationinternal.internet.zone",
 "searchUrl": "https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/sitesearch",
 "authsrcUrl": "https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au/sitesearch"
 }, {
 "title": "ABF",
 "url": "http://borderforceinternal.internet.zone",
 "searchUrl": "https://www.abf.gov.au/sitesearch",
 "authsrcUrl": "https://author.abf.gov.au/sitesearch"
 }, {
 "title": "Portfolio",
 "url": "http://e9-homeaffairsinternal.internet.zone",
 "searchUrl": "https://www.homeaffairs.gov.au/sitesearch",
 "authsrcUrl": "https://authors.homeaffairs.gov.au/sitesearch"
 }]
}

{
 "maincontentsource": "https://www.homeaffairs.gov.au",
 "archiveUrl": "/news-media/archive",
 "newsSiteUrl": "/News-subsite",
 "newsItemUrl": "/news-media/archive/article?itemId=",
 "newsItemListRenditionId": "5",
 "newsItemRenditionId": "6",
 "carouselItemRenditionId": "7",
 "othercontentsource": [{
 "title": "Portfolio",
 "description": "Portfolio",
 "url": "https://www.homeaffairs.gov.au",
 "authurl": "https://author.homeaffairs.gov.au"
 },
 {
 "title": "Immi",
 "description": "Immigration and Citizenship",
 "url": "https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au",
 "authurl": "https://immiauthor.homeaffairs.gov.au"
 },
 {
 "title": "ABF",
 "description": "Australian Border Force",
 "url": "https://www.abf.gov.au",
 "authurl": "https://author.abf.gov.au"
 },
 {
 "title": "NatSec",
 "description": "National Security",
 "url": "https://beta.nationalsecurity.gov.au/",
 "authurl": "https://betaauthor.nationalsecurity.gov.au"
 },
 {
 "title": "CIC",
 "description": "Critical Infrastructure Centre",
 "url": "https://www.cicentre.gov.au",
 "authurl": "https://author.cicentre.gov.au"
 },
 {
 "title": "OMARA",
 "description": "OMARA",
 "url": "https://www.mara.gov.au/",
 "authurl": "https://author.mara.gov.au"
 }
 ]
}

var CaptchaCallback = function() {
 feedbackWidgetID = grecaptcha.render('feedback-recaptcha', {'sitekey' : '6LdtwD0UAAAAAF5c52fVJ-ExG3iyF0_lVJolvTjZ'});
 app.clickbot.setCaptchaWidget(feedbackWidgetID);
 };

{"glossaryPage":"/help-support/glossary","showFeedback":true,"showGlossary":true}

Was this page useful? 
 
 Yes 
 
 No 
 
 
 Why? 
 
 
 
 It answered my question
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The layout or style was easy to read
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I know what I need to do
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The content was accessible
 
 
 
 
 If you would like to share more feedback,
 contact the Global Feedback Unit 
 
 
 
 Why not? 
 
 
 
 It didn't answer my question
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The layout or style makes it difficult to read
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I don't know what I need to do
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I got a technical error
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The content is not accessible
 
 
 
 
 If you would like to share more feedback,
 contact the Global Feedback Unit 
 
 
 
 
 
 You must select at least one reason to submit your feedback. 
 
 
 {0}

{"hello":"We use these comments to improve our online services. We do not reply to them. If you have an enquiry that requires us to access your details see the ‘Contact us’ page.","return":"Anything else?","glossaryMenu":"See definitions of complex terms","feedbackMenu":"Submit feedback","botTitle":"Glossary","feedbackTitle":"Tell us what you think"}
